Title: Gold / Silver / Copper Prices - Weekly Outlook: January 21 -25
Date: 20190120
Content:
Investing.com - This week precious metals traders will be monitoring trade talks for signs of a resolution in the U.S.-China trade dispute, while concerns over the economic impact of the U.S. government shutdown and uncertainty over Brexit will also remain in focus. While the ongoing government shutdown continues to delay some key U.S. economic reports, investors will get an update on U.S. existing home sales and jobless claims this week and U.S. markets are to remain closed for a long holiday weekend on Monday. Gold slid to its lowest in more than a week on Friday and posted its first weekly decline since mid-December, as equities and the U.S. dollar got a lift from investors taking on more risk due to growing hopes for a resolution in the China-U.S. trade war. Gold futures settled down 0.86% at $1,281.15 on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange late Friday, after falling as low as $1,280.10 earlier. For the week, gold was down 0.54%. Media reports on Thursday and Friday suggested both countries were considering concessions ahead of a Washington visit from Chinese Vice Premier Liu He on Jan. 30 and 31 for talks aimed at resolving the trade standoff between the world’s two largest economies. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a basket of six major currencies, was up 0.32% at 96.02 late Friday, for a weekly gain of 0.76%. It was the first positive week for the index since mid-December. Gold is often sensitive to movements in the dollar. A stronger greenback is seen as a headwind for commodities priced in dollars as it makes them more expensive to holders of other currencies. "With the news out yesterday that they expect the U.S. may drop the tariffs on China, we saw a continuation of the move up in equities, and as a result, safe havens such as gold are weaker," said David Meger, director of metals trading at High Ridge Futures. “Gold did not break through the $1,300 resistance and since there is no catalyst to get us through there, some profit taking has come on as well,” said Walter Pehowich, executive vice president of investment services at Dillon Gage Metals. “People also hoped that the dollar index would sell off here but it hasn’t, and that’s another indication why we should take our profits. It has been a good rally,” Pehowich added. Elsewhere in metals trading, silver was down 1.15% to $15.357 a troy ounce, to end the week 1.64% lower, having earlier touched its lowest since Dec. 28. Copper ended at $2.712, up 1.19% for the day and notched up its second consecutive weekly gain. Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of significant events likely to affect the markets. Monday, January 21 China is to release what will be closely watched data on fourth quarter growth, as well as figures on investment and industrial production. U.S. financial markets are to be closed on Monday for the Martin Luther King Day Holiday. Tuesday, January 22 The U.K. is to publish its latest employment report along with data on net lending. The ZEW Institute is to publish a report on German economic sentiment. Canada is to report on manufacturing sales. The U.S. is to publish data on existing home sales. Wednesday, January 23 New Zealand is to release inflation figures. The Bank of Japan is to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish a rate statement, which outlines economic conditions and the factors affecting the monetary policy decision. Canada is to publish data on retail sales. Thursday, January 24 Australia is to release its jobs report. The euro zone is to release data on private sector business activity. The European Central Bank is to announce its latest monetary policy decision. The U.S. is to publish the weekly report on initial jobless claims. Friday, January 25 The Ifo Institute is to report on German business climate. -- Reuters contributed to this report
