Title: Crude Rebounds as U.S. Payrolls Surge Eases Economic Jitters
Date: 20190705
Content:
(Bloomberg) -- Oil rebounded, erasing the day’s losses, as a forecast-topping U.S. employment report offered hope for a crude market consumed by economic worries. Prices were still set for a weekly decline, though. Futures in New York edged 0.2% higher after earlier dropping as much as 1.8%. Payrolls climbed by 224,000 in June, exceeding all economist estimates. The ultimate fallout of the report was unclear, though, as investors fretted that labor-market strength would decrease the odds of a Federal Reserve rate cut. The dollar surged, adding to pressure on commodities sold in the U.S. currency. West Texas Intermediate crude was still headed for a weekly decline, as German factory orders added to a spate of sluggish manufacturing data around the globe. That’s overshadowed this week’s decision by OPEC and its allies to extend supply curbs and the seizure of a tanker carrying Iranian crude by British special forces on Thursday. “From a demand standpoint, the question is will the Fed save the day” or “are we too far gone?” said Tyler Richey, co-editor at Sevens Report Research in Florida. “What economic data begins to show in the next few weeks and months is going to be the most important thing to watch.” Oil slumped on Tuesday in its worst decline following a meeting by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries in four years. While the cartel is struggling to boost prices, its voluntary production limits are also leaving the door open for U.S. shale producers to grab more market share, according to  Goldman Sachs Group  Inc (NYSE:GS). American crude output resumed gains last week. West Texas Intermediate oil for August delivery was up 14 cents to $57.48 on the New York Mercantile Exchange at 2:09 p.m. There was no settlement Thursday due to a holiday in the U.S., and all transactions will be booked Friday. Brent for September rose 1.7% to $64.35 a barrel on the ICE (NYSE:ICE) Futures Europe Exchange. See also: Going Dark, Fake Voyages: Tactics Used to Skirt Trade Sanctions Prices have also lost support from a tight physical crude market, which has pushed up global refining margins in the last few days after a lackluster May and June. “If the state of the economy does not improve, demand alone is not likely to be able to slice potentially growing inventories,” Michael Poulsen, an analyst at Global Risk Management Ltd A/S, wrote in a report. “The Middle East tensions are also potentially bullish for oil prices and any new development in the area could spur fears of oil disruptions.” 
