Title: Oil Prices Fall Again on Recession Fears, Stock Build
Date: 20190815
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices tumbled further in early trading in the U.S. on Thursday, after a brief stabilization overnight crumbled under a new wave of recession fears. Investing.com - Crude oil prices tumbled further in early trading in the U.S. on Thursday, after a brief stabilization overnight crumbled under a new wave of recession fears. By 8:45 AM ET (1245 GMT), the benchmark U.S. blend, West Texas Intermediate, had fallen 67c, or 1.2%, to $54.55 a barrel, close to its lows for the week. That was still a handy rebound from an intraday low of $54.10, however.
The international benchmark Brent was down $1.09 or 1.8% to $58.39 a barrel. By 8:45 AM ET (1245 GMT), the benchmark U.S. blend, West Texas Intermediate, had fallen 67c, or 1.2%, to $54.55 a barrel, close to its lows for the week. That was still a handy rebound from an intraday low of $54.10, however. The international benchmark Brent was down $1.09 or 1.8% to $58.39 a barrel. Fears of a global recession, with all of its attendant effects on oil demand, surged again overnight as Beijing signaled it will retaliate against U.S. President Donald Trump's latest initiative to impose tariffs on effectively all U.S. imports from China. With demand weakening, concerns that the market will slide into another glut are growing. Data released Wednesday by the Energy Information Administration showed a second straight week of rising crude inventories in the U.S., although analysts suggested that the headline masked an underlying picture of still-strong demand. 
Analysts at ING noted that gasoline demand hit a record 9.93 million barrels a day last week. With demand weakening, concerns that the market will slide into another glut are growing. Data released Wednesday by the Energy Information Administration showed a second straight week of rising crude inventories in the U.S., although analysts suggested that the headline masked an underlying picture of still-strong demand. Analysts at ING noted that gasoline demand hit a record 9.93 million barrels a day last week. The stockpile build, they said, was caused largely by lower refinery utilisation rates, which fell by 1.6 percentage points to 94.8%, while imports also rose by over 550 million barrels a days to average average 7.7 million barrels a day. News from abroad also pointed to a worsening supply/demand balance Thursday. Reports suggested that Iraq, the second-largest oil producer in OPEC, continued to pump above its agreed output ceiling in July, producing an average of 4.85 million barrels a day. That was little changed from June and over 300,000 b/d above its output ceiling.
The figures come only days after the International Energy Agency revised down its forecasts for demand growth this year and next. Reports suggested that Iraq, the second-largest oil producer in OPEC, continued to pump above its agreed output ceiling in July, producing an average of 4.85 million barrels a day. That was little changed from June and over 300,000 b/d above its output ceiling. The figures come only days after the International Energy Agency revised down its forecasts for demand growth this year and next. Elsewhere, there was a dramatic twist in the tangled negotiations to defuse the tension in the Persian Gulf, as the U.S. Department of Justice sued to impound an Iranian tanker that had been seized by British armed forces in July.
“The U.S. Department of Justice has applied to seize the Grace 1 on a number of allegations which are now being considered,” Bloomberg quoted the Gibraltar government as saying in a statement. The court will hear the matter at 11 AM ET (1500 GMT).
“The U.S. Department of Justice has applied to seize the Grace 1 on a number of allegations which are now being considered,” the Gibraltar government said in a statement. “The matter will return to the Supreme Court of Gibraltar at 4:00 p.m. today.” Elsewhere, there was a dramatic twist in the tangled negotiations to defuse the tension in the Persian Gulf, as the U.S. Department of Justice sued to impound an Iranian tanker that had been seized by British armed forces in July. “The U.S. Department of Justice has applied to seize the Grace 1 on a number of allegations which are now being considered,” Bloomberg quoted the Gibraltar government as saying in a statement. The court will hear the matter at 11 AM ET (1500 GMT). Natgas futures, meanwhile, were 1.0% higher at $2.16 per 10,000 MMBtu. Natgas futures, meanwhile, were 1.0% higher at $2.16 per 10,000 MMBtu.
