Title: Oil Prices Rise; Middle East Tension, China-U.S. Trade Worries Remain in Focus
Date: 20190721
Content:
Investing.com - Oil prices rose on Monday in Asia as tensions in the Middle East and Sino-U.S. trade worries remained in focus. Investing.com - Oil prices rose on Monday in Asia as tensions in the Middle East and Sino-U.S. trade worries remained in focus. U.S. Crude Oil WTI Futures gained 1.1% to $56.22 by 11:40 PM ET (03:40 GMT). International benchmark Brent crude rose 1.3% to $63.26. U.S. Crude Oil WTI Futures gained 1.1% to $56.22 by 11:40 PM ET (03:40 GMT). International benchmark Brent crude rose 1.3% to $63.26. Last week, oil prices recorded their deepest loss in almost two months despite the fact that weekly data showed another outsize U.S. crude inventory drawdown. Last week, oil prices recorded their deepest loss in almost two months despite the fact that weekly data showed another outsize U.S. crude inventory drawdown. Continued trade concerns between the U.S. and China were cited as a catalyst for the selling of oil. Trump said last week a trade deal with China might not happen right away and that he is considering heavier tariffs against Beijing. Continued trade concerns between the U.S. and China were cited as a catalyst for the selling of oil. Trump said last week a trade deal with China might not happen right away and that he is considering heavier tariffs against Beijing. Tension in the Middle East also received some continued focus today. It was reported that Iran seized a British-flagged oil tanker in the Strait of Hormuz, adding to tensions in the area. It was not clear why the Iranians had seized the tanker, but state-run media said it was for violations of international regulations. Tension in the Middle East also received some continued focus today. It was reported that Iran seized a British-flagged oil tanker in the Strait of Hormuz, adding to tensions in the area. It was not clear why the Iranians had seized the tanker, but state-run media said it was for violations of international regulations. Geopolitical tensions in the Middle East intensified after Iran shot down a U.S. surveillance drone in June. Earlier this month, U.S. President Donald Trump claimed to have brought down an Iranian drone. Geopolitical tensions in the Middle East intensified after Iran shot down a U.S. surveillance drone in June. Earlier this month, U.S. President Donald Trump claimed to have brought down an Iranian drone. In a Thursday news conference at the Iranian mission to the United Nations, Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif suggested that Trump’s sanctions on Tehran’s oil and leaders need to be removed before the two sides could talk.
