Title: Crude Oil Prices Dip In Asia With Markets Watching Nate In Gulf Of Mexico
Date: 20171005
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices fell in Asia oN Friday, but support could com as the U.S. National Hurricane Center says tropical storm Nate is on its way to becoming a full hurricane as it reaches the Gulf of Mexico with several offshore production sites already shut along with refineries. On the New York Mercantile Exchange crude futures for November delivery fell 0.10% to $50.74 a barrel, while on London's Intercontinental Exchange, Brent dipped 0.16% to $56.91 a barrel. Also ahead of Friday int he U.S. is rig count data from baker Hughes. Overnight, crude oil prices settled higher on Thursday as concerns over an uptick in U.S. and Libyan production were offset by talks of an extension to the Opec-led deal to curb output. Oil prices recovered from a 1% slump sustained from the previous session as Saudi King Salman’s visit to Moscow fuelled expectations that the two nations would discuss a possible extension to the global pact to curb output. The uptick in expectations of an extension to supply-cut agreement deal comes a day after Russian President Vladimir Putin said that the deal between Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (Opec) and other producers could be extended to the end of 2018. "Putin and Salman will most likely reach, but not announce, an agreement to extend the OPEC/non-OPEC production deal, though with a commitment to taper the cuts," said consultancy Eurasia Group. In May, Opec and non-Opec members agreed to extend production cuts of 1.8m barrels per day for a period of nine months until March 2018. Investors weighed the possibility of an extension to the Opec-led deal against expectations that growing output in the U.S. and Libya could weigh on oil prices. Libya restarted its largest oil field after a gunmen forced a shutdown of the field over the weekend while U.S. production hit its highest level in more than two-years. The U.S. Energy Information Administration reported Wednesday that U.S. oil production hit 9.56 million barrels a day in the week ended Sept. 29, its highest level since July 2015. 
