Title: Gold, copper ease in Asia as Trump moves on policy goals
Date: 20170124
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices fell in Asia on Wednesday with copper climbing down from sharp overnight gains as regional data sets showed unexpected gains in Japan exports and investors continued to mull the flurry of executive actions by President Donald Trump, including his latest tweet signaling a border all announcement on Wednesday in the U.S. Gold for February delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange fell 0.30% to 1,207.15 a troy ounce. Also on the Comex, silver futures for March delivery fell 0.77% to $17.108 a troy ounce, while copper futures dipped 0.18% to $2.703 a pound after a more than 2% rise overnight. Japan's annual exports grew 5.4% in December, the first time in 15 months, led by shipments of car parts and electronics, and well above a forecast of a 1.2% increase. Australia said inflation rose less than expected in the last quarter of 2016, up 0.5% in the fourth-quarter and 1.5% from the previous year. The Reserve Bank of Australia targets an annual inflation rate in the range between 2% to 3%. Overnight, copper soared on Tuesday in the U.S. with investors looking to a pickup in U.S. demand on expected tax cuts and infrastructure spending under the new administration and taking profits on recent gains for gold. On the economic front, Markit’s preliminary manufacturing purchasing managers’ index (PMI) for January beat expectations as new orders expanded at their quickest pace since September 2014. December existing home sales missed expectations, but still closed out 2016 with their best year in a decade. Trading in North American markets on Tuesday was steady as traders continued to focus on President Donald Trump for further details on his promises of tax reform, infrastructure spending and deregulation and noted the dollar index this week had touched seven-week lows, providing a buying opportunity for the precious metal denominated in greenbacks. Trump's nominee for Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin's remarks that an "excessively strong" dollar can have negative short-term impacts on the U.S. economy also weighed on markets. Mnuchin is still awaiting confirmation by the Senate, which has yet to schedule a vote. In his latest executive order, Trump signed to formally withdraw the U.S. from the 12-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal, distancing America from its Asian allies. Trump has also vowed to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) with leaders of Canada and Mexico. In a meeting with top executives of U.S. companies at the White House on Monday, the president vowed “massive” cuts in taxes and said he could reduce regulations by "75% or more" to help businesses create more jobs in the U.S. Trump also reiterated his pledge to impose a hefty border tax. 
