Title: Gold spikes to 5-month highs as US launches missile strikes on Syria
Date: 20170406
Content:
Investing.com - Gold spiked to five-month peaks Friday in Asia after the U.S. military launched cruise missile strikes against a Syrian air base controlled by President Bashar al-Assad's forces. Gold for April delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange rose 0.93% to $1,265.00 a troy ounce. Copper dipped 0.04% to $2.658 a pound. The missile strike came after President Donald Trump hosted Chinese President Xi Jinping in Florida for a summit that is expected to focus in major part on North Korea. Overnight, gold prices traded higher on Thursday, despite increased expectations of a June rate hike, after the release of a better than expected initial jobless claims report. Gold futures eased from a session high $1,260.65, after the U.S. Department of Labor reported that initial jobless claims decreased by 25,000 to 234,000 in the week ending April 1 from the previous week’s revised total of 259,000. Analysts had expected jobless claims to drop by 8,000 to 250,000 last week.Meanwhile, expectations of June rate hike grew, after the Federal Reserve released the minutes from its March meeting on Wednesday. The Federal Reserve said that it would start to unwind its $4.5 trillion balance sheet “later this year” and maintained its view, rate hikes would be gradual. Some analysts supported the idea that the Federal Reserve is poised to increase interest rates in June. “We have expressed a strong conviction that, unless the data deteriorate or financial conditions ratchet tighter, the Fed will next hike rates at its June meeting.”  Morgan Stanley  (NYSE:MS) noted in a research report to clients. According to investing.com’s Fed rate monitor tool, 58% of traders expect a rate hike in June compared to 50% of traders prior to the release of the Fed minutes. Gold is sensitive to moves in U.S. rates, which lift the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding assets such as bullion. Meanwhile, a two-day summit between U.S. President Donald Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping later today, is expected to be closely watched by investors, as a negative outcome could weigh on China-U.S. trade relations. 
