Title: Gold / Silver / Copper Prices - Weekly Outlook: Nov. 27 - Dec. 1
Date: 20171126
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices slid lower on Friday as some investors took profits at the end of the week, but losses were held in check by the weaker dollar. Gold futures for December delivery settled down 0.32% at $1,288.04 on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange. For the week, gold prices ended down 0.71%. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, was down 0.34% to 92.72 in late trade. For the week, the index was down 0.93%, its third consecutive weekly decline. A weaker dollar typically tends to support gold, which is denominated in the U.S. currency and becomes more affordable to foreign buyers when the dollar declines. The dollar remained on the back foot after Wednesday’s minutes of the Federal Reserve’s November meeting showed that some officials were concerned inflation would stay below the bank's 2% target for longer than expected. The minutes echoed comments by Fed Chair Janet Yellen earlier in the week that she was uncertain about the inflation outlook. While a rate hike in December is still almost fully priced in, investors pared back expectations for further rate hikes in 2018, sending the dollar lower. Elsewhere in precious metals trading, silver followed gold lower and was down 0.61% at $17.00 a troy ounce late Friday, while platinum settled at $945.05, up 0.46% for the day. Silver lost 1.69% for the week, its first weekly decline in three weeks. Platinum lost 0.93% for the week, its first weekly fall in four. Among base metals, copper prices rose to their highest in nearly a month on Friday, supported by the weaker dollar. Copper for December delivery was up 1.21% at $3.175 in late trade, its highest settlement since October 26. A weaker dollar and a pickup in global growth have pushed copper prices up almost 27% this year. In the week ahead, the changing of the guard at the Federal Reserve will be a big focus for investors, with investors awaiting comments from a number of Fed speakers, including both the current chair and next head of the U.S. central bank. U.S data on personal income and spending, which includes the personal consumption expenditures inflation data, the Fed's preferred metric for inflation, will also be closely watched. Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of these and other significant events likely to affect the markets. Monday, November 27 The U.S. is to release data on new home sales. New York Fed President William Dudley is to speak at an event in Berkley California. Tuesday, November 28 The Bank of England is to publish its financial stability report. Canada is to report on raw material price inflation. The U.S. is to release data on consumer confidence. Fed governor Jerome Powell, selected by President Donald Trump as the next Fed chair, appears before the Senate Banking Committee for his confirmation hearing. Philadelphia Fed President Patrick Harker is to speak. Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz is to speak at an event in Ottawa. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand is to publish its financial stability report. Wednesday, November 29 Germany is to release preliminary data on inflation. The UK is to publish data on net lending. The U.S. is to release revised data on third quarter growth. New York Fed President William Dudley is to speak. Fed Chair Janet Yellen is to testify on the U.S. economic outlook before Joint Economic Committee of Congress, in Washington. The U.S. is to release data on pending home sales. Thursday, November 30 New Zealand is to release data on business confidence. Australia is to publish figures on private capital expenditure and building approvals. China is to produce report on manufacturing and service sector growth. The euro zone is to publish its preliminary inflation estimate. The U.S. is to release data on personal income and consumer spending, which includes the personal consumption expenditures (PCE) inflation data, the Fed's preferred metric for inflation. The U.S. is also to publish the weekly report on jobless claims and data on business activity in the Chicago region. Dallas Fed President Robert Kaplan is to speak. Friday, December 1 China is to publish its Caixin manufacturing index. The UK is to publish its manufacturing index. Canada is to publish data on economic growth and employment. Dallas Fed President Robert Kaplan and Philadelphia Fed President Patrick Harker are to speak. The Institute for Supply Management is to publish its manufacturing index.
