Title: Crude drops in Asia as investors turn cautious on UK election turmoil
Date: 20170608
Content:
Investing.com - Crude fell in Asia on Friday as the U.K. election appeared headed to a hung parliament, crushing Prime Minister Theresa May's plans to secure a solid majority to head into complex talks to exit the European Union. On the New York Mercantile Exchange crude futures for July delivery dipped 0.42% to $45.45 a barrel, while on London's Intercontinental Exchange, Brent 0.58% to $47.66 a barrel. A report that Libya had ended protests that shut in the Sharara oilfield also impacted sentiment. Overnight, crude futures settled lower on Thursday, briefly dipping to a one-month low on the back of concerns of rising global output, following the return of Nigerian crude to the market and an unexpected surge in US crude stockpiles. Crude futures fell to one-month lows of $45.22, after sentiment turned sour on oil, as oversupply concerns resurfaced, following data from the Energy Information Administration on Wednesday, showing U.S. crude and gasoline stocks swelled in the week ended May 26. Inventories of U.S. crude rose by roughly 3.3m barrels in the week ended May 26, confounding expectations of draw of around 3.5m barrels while gasoline inventories, one the products the crude is refined into rose by 3.324m. The EIA report, however, also showed that U.S. crude production in the lower 48 states fell by 20,000 barrels to 8.815 million barrels a day, for the first time this year. The tick lower in production failed to offset concerns about longer-term prospect of a surge in U.S. production as the EIA in a report on Tuesday, lowered its crude oil price forecast and raised its U.S. production outlook for 2018. Royal Dutch Shell (LON:LON:RDSa) on Wednesday, lifted force majeure on exports of Nigeria’s Forcados crude oil, brining all of the West African country’s oil exports fully online for the first time in 16 months. The Forcados oil field, typically exports 200,000-240,000 barrels per day (bpd), bringing Nigeria to around the 1.8 million-bpd level. Nigeria is exempt from the OPEC output cuts, which were recently extended through March 2018. In May, OPEC and non-OPEC members agreed to extend production cuts for a period of nine months until March, but stuck to production cuts of 1.8 million bpd agreed in November last year. 
