Title: U.S. natural gas futures little changed after worst day in 6 months
Date: 20170620
Content:
Investing.com - U.S. natural gas futures were little changed on Tuesday, one day after suffering its biggest daily loss since January as updated weather forecasting models pointed to weak demand in the weeks ahead. U.S. natural gas for July delivery was at $2.889 per million British thermal units by 9:25AM ET (1325GMT), down half a cent. It fell to its lowest since March 17 at $2.877 in the prior session. Natural gas prices lost 14.3 cents, or around 4.7%, on Monday, their worst one-day drop since January. A cool front will sweep across the eastern U.S. the next few days with heavy showers and powerful thunderstorms, thereby dropping highs into the upper 60s and 70s with little demand for heating or cooling. Longer-term models showed considerably cooler temperatures for late next weekend into the following week as weather systems over southern Canada advance more aggressively into the northern and eastern U.S. Natural gas prices have closely tracked weather forecasts in recent weeks, as traders try to gauge the impact of shifting outlooks on summer heating demand. Gas use typically hits a seasonal low with spring's mild temperatures, before warmer weather increases demand for gas-fired electricity generation to power air conditioning. Nearly 50% of all U.S. households use gas for heating. Total natural gas in storage currently stands at 2.709 trillion cubic feet, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, 10.6% lower than levels at this time a year ago but 8.4% above the five-year average for this time of year. Market participants looked ahead to weekly storage data due on Thursday, which is expected to show a build in a range between 49 and 60 billion cubic feet in the week ended June 16. That compares with a gain of 78 billion cubic feet in the preceding week, an increase of 62 billion a year earlier and a five-year average rise of 82 billion cubic feet. 
