Title: Crude Oil Futures - Weekly Outlook: June 12 - 16
Date: 20170611
Content:
Investing.com - Oil futures settled a bit higher on Friday, but prices still suffered their third straight weekly loss as the market weighed rising U.S. drilling and swelling stockpiles against efforts by major producers to cut output to reduce a global glut. The U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude July contract inched up 19 cents, or around 0.4%, to end at $45.83 a barrel by close of trade Friday. It touched its lowest since May 5 at $45.20 on Thursday. Elsewhere, on the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for August delivery advanced 29 cents to settle at $48.15 a barrel by close of trade, after hitting a daily trough of $47.40, a level not seen since May 5. For the week, WTI lost $1.83, or about 3.8%, while Brent fell $1.80, or roughly 3.6%. Both have now posted losses three weeks in a row. Concern that the ongoing rebound in U.S. shale production is derailing efforts by other major producers to rebalance the market remained in focus. Data from energy services company Baker Hughes showed on Friday that U.S. drillers last week added rigs for the 21st week in a row, the longest such streak on record, implying that further gains in domestic production are ahead. The U.S. rig count rose by 8 to 741, extending a year-long drilling recovery to the highest level since April 2015. That came after data on Wednesday showed that U.S. crude stockpiles unexpectedly climbed for the first time in nine weeks. The increase in U.S. drilling activity and shale production has mostly offset efforts by OPEC and other producers to cut output in a move to prop up the market. Last month, OPEC and some non-OPEC producers extended a deal to cut 1.8 million barrels per day in supply until March 2018. So far, the production-cut agreement has had little impact on global inventory levels due to rising supply from producers not participating in the accord, such as Libya and Nigeria, and a relentless increase in U.S. shale oil output. Elsewhere on Nymex, gasoline futures for July tacked on 0.9 cents, or about 0.7% to end at $1.501 on Friday. It closed down around 4.8% for the week. July heating oil added 0.8 cents to finish at $1.431 a gallon. For the week, the fuel declined roughly 3.6%. Natural gas futures for July delivery rose 1.1 cents to settle at $3.039 per million British thermal units. It saw a weekly gain of 1.3%. In the week ahead, market participants will eye fresh weekly information on U.S. stockpiles of crude and refined products on Tuesday and Wednesday to gauge the strength of demand in the world’s largest oil consumer. Meanwhile, investors will keep an eye out for monthly reports from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Counties and the International Energy Agency to assess global supply and demand levels. Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of these and other significant events likely to affect the markets. Tuesday, June 13 The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Counties will publish its monthly assessment of oil markets. Later in the day, the American Petroleum Institute, an industry group, is to publish its weekly report on U.S. oil supplies. Wednesday, June 14 The International Energy Agency will release its monthly report on global oil supply and demand. The U.S. Energy Information Administration is to release weekly data on oil and gasoline stockpiles. Thursday, June 15 The U.S. government is set to produce a weekly report on natural gas supplies in storage. Friday, June 16 Baker Hughes will release weekly data on the U.S. oil rig count. 
