Title: Crude oil dips in Asia with G20 headlines a drag
Date: 20170319
Content:
Investing.com - Crude prices dipped in early Asia on Monday with headlines from the G-20 meeting of finance ministers in Germany at the weekend dampening sentiment with a lack of cohesion on global trade policies. Finance ministers from twenty of the world's biggest economies met and warned against competitive devaluations, but failed to agree on keeping global trade free and open. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, the West Texas Intermediate crude April contract fell 0.26% to $49.18 a barrel. Elsewhere, on the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for May delivery was last quoted at $51.70 a barrel. Last week, oil futures settled a few pennies higher on Friday, tallying their first weekly gain in three weeks amid expectations that global crude producers will extend their agreement to cut output beyond June. Oil found some support after Saudi Energy Minister Khalid al-Falih said on Thursday the cuts by OPEC and non-OPEC countries could be extended beyond June if stockpiles stayed above a long-term average. OPEC and non-OPEC producers such as Russia agreed in November last year to reduce output by almost 1.8 million barrels per day to 32.5 million for the first six months of 2017, but so far the move has had little impact on inventory levels. OPEC's latest monthly report showed global oil stocks in January rose to 278 million barrels above the five-year average. A poll of market analysts showed on Friday that OPEC will have to extend its oil output curbs beyond June as a revival in crude production outside the group, specifically in the U.S., may scupper its efforts to erode an overhang of unused inventory. Data from oilfield services provider Baker Hughes on Friday revealed that the number of active U.S. rigs drilling for oil rose by 14 last week, the ninth weekly increase in a row. That brought the total count to 631, the most since September 2015, underlining concerns that the ongoing rebound in U.S. shale production could derail efforts by other major producers to rebalance global oil supply and demand. Oil tumbled to the lowest level since November at the start of the week after a report showed Saudi Arabia raised output back above 10 million barrels a day in February, underlining concerns over a global supply glut. Prices then rebounded on Wednesday after U.S. government data revealed the first decline for domestic crude stockpiles in 10 weeks. 
