Title: Gold / Silver / Copper futures - weekly outlook: January 23 - 27
Date: 20170122
Content:
Investing.com - Gold ended higher on Friday, buoyed by the weaker dollar as the inauguration of Donald Trump as U.S. president fueled uncertainty about the direction of fiscal and economic policy. Gold for February delivery settled up 0.67% at $1,209.5 on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange. The metal was 0.75% higher for the week, helped by a broad weakening of the U.S. dollar. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, was down 0.33% to 100.77 late Friday. The index has fallen 1.49% so far this month amid worries over Trump's protectionist stance and following recent remarks in which he said the dollar was too strong. On Friday, Trump said his administration would put "America first" and also promised new roads, bridges and highways. But market sentiment was hit by the negative tone of the speech, which underlined uncertainty over how Trump will govern. Elsewhere in precious metals trading, silver was at $17.09 a troy ounce late Friday, and ended the week with gains of 1.59%. Copper was trading at $2.61 a pound late Friday and ended the week down 2.35% as traders locked in profits after prices hit seven-week peaks. Platinum was up 2.66% on the day at $981.8 an ounce, trimming the week’s losses to 0.6%. In the week ahead, the economic calendar is light but Trump's policy plans in his first days in office are likely to dominate headlines. Investors will also be awaiting a first look at fourth quarter growth from the U.S. on Friday and from the U.K. a day earlier. Tuesday’s data on euro area private sector activity will also be closely watched. Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of these and other significant events likely to affect the markets. Monday, January 23 Canada is to publish data on wholesale sales. ECB President Mario Draghi is to speak at an event in Italy. Tuesday, January 24 The euro zone is to release data on private sector business activity. The U.K. High Court is to deliver a ruling regarding the government's ability to bypass parliament and initiate Britain’s exit from the European Union by triggering Article 50. The U.K. is also to release data on public sector borrowing. The U.S. is to report on existing home sales. Wednesday, January 25 Australia is to publish data on inflation. The Ifo Institute is to report on German business climate. Thursday, January 26 New Zealand is to publish its monthly inflation report. The U.K. is to release the preliminary reading on fourth quarter growth. The U.S. is to release data on initial jobless claims and new home sales. Friday, January 27 Shanghai stock exchange will be shut for a holiday. The U.S. is to round up the week with a preliminary estimate of fourth quarter economic growth, as well as a report on durable goods orders and revised data on consumer sentiment.
