Title: Crude pares overnight gains after API mixed estimates on crude, products
Date: 20170606
Content:
Investing.com - Crude futures gave up some of the gains in after-hours electronic trade after a mixed industry report on crude and refined product stocks and as investors monitor a diplomatic spat after key Gulf Arab states cut diplomatic and commercial ties to Qatar at the start of the week. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, West Texas Intermediate (WTI) gained 1.67% to $48.19 a barrel, while Brent crude futures ended up 1.31% to $50.12 a barrel. But in after-hours trade following the estimates, gasoline and crude pared the gains heading into Asia. U.S. crude inventories fell 4.620 million barrels at the end of last week, the American Petroleum Institute (API) said on Tuesday, more that the 3.5 million barrels expected. But gasoline supplies jumped 4.1 million barrels compared with a build of 667,000 barrels seen and distilaltes gained 1.8 million barrels compared with a build of 271,000 barrels expected. The figures will be followed by official data from the Energy Information Administration (EIA) on Wednesday. The API and EIA figures often diverge. The latest on a spat among Gulf and Arab states with Qatar has seen Kuwait, the U.S. and Turkey offer to mediate as oil rich nations and major Middle East financial hubs Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Bahrain joined the most populous Arab country, Egypt, and others in cutting ties with Qatar. President Donald Trump weighed in on the diplomatic row, claiming some credit with the move to isolate Qatar on fudning, even as the tiny country is hots to U.S. Central Command forces. "So good to see the Saudi Arabia visit with the King and 50 countries already paying off," Trump said on Twitter. "They said they would take a hard line on funding extremism, and all reference was pointing to Qatar. Perhaps this will be the beginning of the end to the horror of terrorism!" The dispute centers on Qatar's support of the Muslim Brotherhood, the world's oldest Islamist movement, and adds accusations that Doha even backs the agenda of regional arch-rival Iran. Qatar denies it has taken any steps to undermine its Gulf and Middle Eastern neighbors. Qatar produces around 600,000 barrels per day (bpd) of oil, but is the world's top LNG exporters and a member of Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and the dispute could create a fissure in the cartel. It is also the world's largest exporter of LNG. U.S. natural gas for June rose 2.45% to $3.055 per million British thermal units.
