Title: Crude gains in Asia with OPEC monthly report awaited
Date: 20170612
Content:
Investing.com - Crude prices gained in Asia on Tuesday with data on major global inventories ahead this week in a market looking for signs that demand is bringing down swollen stocks. On the New York Mercantile Exchange crude futures for July delivery gained 0.41% to $46.27 a barrel, while on London's Intercontinental Exchange, Brent rose 0.39% to $48.48 a barrel. A duo of oil reports expected from OPEC and the International Energy Agency (IEA) on Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively will set the tone. For the OPEC report, the comparison to May will be key when it pointed to continued high compliance by its members with the supply deal and said oil stocks in industrialised nations fell in March - although they are still 276 million barrels above the five-year average. Supply from the 11 OPEC members with production targets under the accord - all except Libya and Nigeria - fell to 29.674 million bpd last month, according to figures from secondary sources that OPEC uses to monitor output. That means OPEC has complied 111% with the plan, according to analyst estimates, up from an estimate in March of 104%. OPEC did not publish a compliance number. The reports will include an update on the state of global crude stockpiles, providing investors with the opportunity to establish whether OPEC and its allies' efforts to drain the glut in supply is starting to take shape. OPEC and non-OPEC allies last month agreed to extend production cuts for a period of nine months until March last week, but stuck to production cuts of 1.8 million bpd agreed in November last year. Overnight, crude futures settled higher on Monday, after Saudi Arabia and Russia attempted to quell investor fears concerning the glut in supply, insisting that declines in inventories will accelerate over the near term. Sentiment on oil prices turned positive, after Saudi Energy Minister Khalid al-Falih said inventories are declining and reductions will accelerate in the next three to four months. Crude futures, however, pared gains in the mid-afternoon U.S. session, after the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) released its monthly report on drilling activity. The EIA revealed that oil production from seven major U.S. shale plays is projected to rise by 127,000 barrels a day to 5.475 million barrels a day in July from June. Rising shale output has been one the catalysts contributing to the recent slump in oil prices as investors fear that a ramp up in U.S. production could derail the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and its allies' efforts to restore balance in crude markets.  UBS last week cut its 2017 price forecast by more than 6% for WTI oil to $53 a barrel. 
