Title: Crude holds gains in Asia as market welcomes Saudi, Russian views
Date: 20170515
Content:
Investing.com - Crude prices held gains into Asia on Tuesday in an upbeat welcome for a pledge by Saudi Arabia and Russia to extend production cuts through March of next year if other key producers go along. On the New York Mercantile Exchange crude futures for June delivery rose 0.41% to $49.05 a barrel, while on London's Intercontinental Exchange, Brent was last quoted up 0.41% to $51.99 a barrel. Ahead, the American Petroleum Institute will release its estimates of U.S. crude and refined product stocks after the market close on Tuesday, followed by official figures from the Energy Information Administration on Wednesday. Analysts expect a 2.283 million barrels drop in crude stocks by the end of last week, along with a 1.250 million barrels decline in distillates and an 846,000 barrels dip in gasoline supplies. Overnight, crude futures soared on Monday, after energy ministers from Saudi Arabia and Russia said they would support an extension of the supply-cut agreement into March 2018. Investors’ concerns regarding a possible deal extension were eased on Monday, as top exporter Saudi Arabia and Russia supported the idea of extending the current supply-cut agreement for a period of nine months, until March 2018. "There has been a marked reduction to the inventories, but we're not where we want to be in reaching the five-year average," Saudi Energy Minister Khalid al-Falih said on Monday. In November last year, OPEC and other producers, including Russia, agreed to cut output by about 1.8 million barrels per day (bpd). The deal to cut production expires in June this year but includes a possible six-month extension. OPEC is expected to decide at talks on May 25 whether to extend the current deal to cut production. Crude futures dropped to November 2016 lows in late April, on the back of concerns that rising levels of U.S. oil output would dampen OPEC’s efforts to rein in the glut in supply. Although, fears of a glut in U.S. oil production, have eased over the past several weeks, after U.S. crude inventories fell for a fifth-straight week, for the week ended May 3, overall sentiment concerning the level of long-term U.S. oil production remained bearish. The Energy Information Administration, last week, raised its U.S. oil production forecast and lowered its projection for average oil prices for 2017. 
