Title: Gold stays close to 6-week low as investors await Fed outcome
Date: 20170314
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices were modestly higher during North American morning hours on Tuesday, but stayed near the lowest level in six weeks ahead of an expected interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve. Comex gold futures tacked on $1.25, or around 0.1%, to $1,204.30 a troy ounce by 11:20AM ET (15:20GMT), within sight of last Friday's low of $1,194.50, which was the weakest level since January 31. Meanwhile, spot gold was little changed at $1,204.80 per ounce. The Fed kicks off its two-day policy meeting on Tuesday, at which it is widely expected to raise the fed funds target range by a quarter point to a range between 0.75%-1%. The U.S. central bank will also release its latest forecasts for economic growth and interest rates, known as the "dot-plot". Fed Chair Janet Yellen's post-meeting press conference will be closely watched for clues on the pace of future rate hikes. Fed officials previously projected three rate hikes in 2017, but that might move up to four, amid signs of an uptick in inflation and continued strength in the jobs market. Meanwhile, investors were focusing on the Dutch election, to be held Wednesday, which is being watched as a bellwether for the spread of populism in Europe, particularly ahead of next month's French election. Opinion polls have suggested that Dutch nationalist Geert Wilders' right-wing Freedom Party, which wants to take the Netherlands out of the European Union and stop Muslim immigration, has lost its lead to more mainstream opponents. However, a diplomatic standoff with Turkey threatened to overshadow the final stretch of campaigning and influence voting in Wilders' favor with less than 24 hours to polling day, prompting investors to remain weary over the possibility of a Brexit or Trump-style shock result. Elsewhere, in France, presidential candidate Francois Fillon was put under formal investigation on Tuesday over misuse of public funds in the fake jobs scandal involving his wife, the prosecutor's office said. Fillon has said he would maintain his bid as the candidate of The Republicans party in the April-May presidential election even if he went under formal investigation. Also on the Comex, silver futures for May delivery inched up 2.0 cents, or around 0.1%, to $16.99 a troy ounce. Meanwhile, platinum declined 0.1% to $940.30, while palladium slipped 0.8% to $748.50 an ounce. Elsewhere in metals trading, copper futures rose 1.3 cents, or 0.6%, to $2.640 a pound. China's January to February economic data painted a rosier picture of the world's second largest economy, underlining the view that it got off to a strong start to 2017. 
