Title: U.S. natural gas extends pullback from 2-month highs
Date: 20170403
Content:
Investing.com - U.S. natural gas futures started the week lower on Monday, extending a pullback from a two-month high as a bout of technical selling kicked in after priced failed to break above a key resistance level. U.S. natural gas for May delivery rose to an overnight high of $3.239 per million British thermal units, just shy of Friday's peak of $3.242, a level not seen since early February. Prices of the heating fuel last traded at $3.148 by 9:40AM ET (13:40GMT), down 4.3 cents, or around 1.4%. It posted a weekly gain of around 3.7% last week as traders monitored shifting early-spring weather forecasts. A strong spring storm with heavy showers and thunderstorms will track across the southern and east-central U.S. and then across the Northeast in the first half of the coming week, according to forecasters at NatGasWeather.com. However, there will be limited cold air associated with it and will result in slightly lighter than normal overall demand for the fuel, when considering much of the rest of the country will be mild to warm. A colder storm will then track across the south-central and eastern U.S. later in the week, which should boost demand back above normal levels. Natural gas prices have closely tracked weather forecasts in recent weeks, as traders try to gauge the impact of shifting forecasts on early-spring demand. The heating season from November through March is the peak demand period for U.S. gas consumption. Nearly 50% of all U.S. households use gas for heating. Meanwhile, market participants looked ahead to weekly storage data  due on Thursday, which is expected to show a build in a range between 7 and 17 billion cubic feet in the week ended March 31. That compares with a withdrawal of 43 billion cubic feet in the preceding week, a gain of 12 billion a year earlier and a five-year average drop of 13 billion cubic feet. Total natural gas in storage currently stands at 2.049 trillion cubic feet, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, 17.1% lower than levels at this time a year ago but 12.2% above the five-year average for this time of year. 
