Title: Gold dips in Asia as Trum, XI talk to defuse tensions
Date: 20170209
Content:
Investing. com - Gold prices dipped in Asia on Friday as President Donald Trump told his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping that the U.S. would stick with the "One China" policy, easing tension between the world's two largest economies. Gold for April delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange dropped 0.893% to $1,225.35 a troy ounce. Also on the Comex, silver futures for March delivery dropped 0.87% to $17.587 a troy ounce. Copper futures dipped 0.15% to $2.654 a pound, despite the start o0f a strike by workers at the Escondida copper mine in Chile, the largest in the world. The workers union has warned that the strike could be lengthy, potentially affecting global supplies. Chile is the world’s biggest producer of the red metal, providing almost a third of the world's supply. China's January dollar denominated trade surplus came in at $51.35 billion, well above the $47.9 billion expected. Exports rose 7.9%, well above the 3.3% expected and imports jumped 16.7%, more than the 10% increase seen. Earlier China's customs said yuan-denominated exports rose 15.9% year-on-year and imports jumped 25.2% from a year earlier. Overnight, gold prices were slightly higher in North American morning trade on Thursday, hovering below the prior session's three-month high amid ongoing worries over political risks in Europe and economic uncertainty in the U.S. Uncertainty about European politics has boosted gold in recent sessions. Polls this week have shown German Chancellor Angela Merkel falling behind a candidate from the country's Social Democrats in this year's elections scheduled to take place in September. Polls have also suggested France's Marine Le Pen, who has vowed to pull France out of the euro zone, is gaining ground. Adding to the mood of uncertainty, elections will also be held in the Netherlands in March and possibly Italy.Traders also eyed political risk elements in the U.S., with President Donald Trump's administration on the back foot over its immigration and other policies. Market participants continued to speculate over the timing of the next U.S. rate increase. Fed fund futures priced in a less than 10% chance of a hike in March, according to Investing.com’s Fed Rate Monitor Tool. However, odds of a June increase was seen at around 60%. The Fed, which raised rates in December, has forecast three rate increases this year. However, traders remained unconvinced, with markets continuing to price in just two rate hikes during the course of this year.Fed Chair Janet Yellen will present the U.S. central bank's semiannual report on monetary policy and the economy in testimony to the Senate Banking Committee next week. Gold is sensitive to moves in U.S. rates, which lift the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding assets such as bullion. A gradual path to higher rates is seen as less of a threat to gold prices than a swift series of increases. 
