Title: U.S. natural gas futures stay lower after weekly storage data
Date: 20170330
Content:
Investing.com - U.S. natural gas futures declined on Thursday, holding on to losses after data showed that natural gas supplies in storage in the U.S. fell broadly in line with market expectations last week. U.S. natural gas for May delivery shed 3.4 cents, or around 1.1%, to $3.197 per million British thermal units by 10:35AM ET (14:35GMT). Futures were at around $3.196 prior to the release of the supply data. It settled higher for the second day in a row on Wednesday after touching its strongest January 31 at $3.253 The U.S. Energy Information Administration said in its weekly report that natural gas storage in the U.S. declined by 43 billion cubic feet in the week ended March 24, compared to forecasts for a drop of 42 billion. That compared with a withdrawal of 150 billion cubic feet in the preceding week, a decline of 25 billion a year earlier and a five-year average drop of 27 billion cubic feet. Total natural gas in storage currently stands at 2.049 trillion cubic feet, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, 17.1% lower than levels at this time a year ago but 12.2% above the five-year average for this time of year. Meanwhile, traders continued to monitor shifting early-spring weather forecasts. Weather systems will track across the country the next several days with rain, snow, and thunderstorms, but with limited cold air as they play out spring-like, according to forecasters at NatGasWeather.com. There remains potential for a bit colder system from April 7 through the 10th and will be dependent on how a weather system tracking over the southern U.S. phases with a cold blast over the Midwest. Natural gas prices have closely tracked weather forecasts in recent weeks, as traders try to gauge the impact of shifting forecasts on early-spring demand. The heating season from November through March is the peak demand period for U.S. gas consumption. Nearly 50% of all U.S. households use gas for heating. 
