Title: Crude oil prices dip in Asia despite API draw, EIA awaited
Date: 20170829
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices dipped in Asia on Wednesday despite a massive draw in U.S. stocks reported by an industry body as inevstors looked ahead to the impact of Hurricane Harvey on supply and demand in the coming months. On the New York Mercantile Exchange crude futures for October delivery dipped 0.28% to $46.31 a barrel, while on London's Intercontinental Exchange, Brent fell 0.31% to $51.50 a barrel. U.S. crude oil stocks fell by an estimated 5.8 million barrels at the end of last week, the American Petroleum Institute said on Tuesday, beating an expected draw of 1.9 million barrels. The data was complied before the impact of Hurricane Harvey. Gasoline stocks rose by 480,000 barrels, while distillates fell by 490,000 barrels. The supply hub at Cushing, Oklahoma, saw a build of 580,000 barrels. Investors will now look ahead to official data from the Energy Information Administration on Wednesday. Overnight, crude futures settled lower for the second day in a row, as investor concerns grew over a fall in demand for U.S. oil, after Hurricane Harvey tore through Texas, shutting down more than 16% of overall U.S. capacity. Crude oil’s poor start to the week continued, as Hurricane Harvey wreaked havoc in Texas, ripping through the heart of the U.S. oil industry, knocking out several refiners in the region, weighing on refining capacity. About 3 million bpd of U.S. refining capacity had already been shut, with more shutdowns expected, sparking concerns over an excess in crude oil supplies, the primary input at refiners. U.S. crude production also came under pressure due to Harvey, however, analysts believe the impact of lower crude demand at refineries would outweigh the dip in crude oil production. “While production of crude oil has been hampered by the storm, the refinery shut-ins have crimped demand for oil,” said Nitesh Shah, director and commodities strategist at ETF Securities.  
