Title: Gold dips in Asia as UK polls, ECB and Comey testimony loom for markets
Date: 20170608
Content:
Investing.com - Gold dipped in Asia on Thursday as investors looked ahead to China and Australia trade data regionally a trio of events that heighten market risk, an ECB policy review, the U.K. general election and testimony by fired FBI director James Comey to Congress. Gold futures for August delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange fell 0.47%, to $1,287.11 a troy ounce. In written testimony, Comey quoted President Donald Trump as telling him: "I hope you can see your way clear to letting this go, to letting Flynn go." China reported a trade data surplus of $40.81 billion, narrower than the $46.32 billion expected, but wider than the $38.05 billion seen last month with exports up 8.7%, more than the 7.0% gain seen and imports up 14.8%, beating the 8.5% gain seen year-on-year. Earlier, Japan GDP for the first quarter led a slew of data, with quarter-on-quarter figures coming in weaker than expected at a gain of 0.3%, compared to 0.6% seen and the annual pace at 1.0% compared with 2.4% expected. As well, the seasonally adjusted current account came in at a surplus of ¥1.81 trillion, wider than the ¥1.62 trillion forecast. Australia's trade balance came in narrower than expected at A$555 million, compared to an expected at a surplus of A$1.950 billion for April, the data a bit of a lag. Overnight, gold steadied on Wednesday, supported by a drift lower in the dollar, as investors anticipated a flurry of potential risk events that could spur volatility and uncertainty, increasing demand for safe havens. Gold eased from lows, as the dollar pared earlier gains against the euro, which fell to session lows earlier, after a report surfaced from Bloomberg, suggesting the ECB will cut its inflation forecast for the next three years to 1.5% amid a slump in energy prices. The report comes a day ahead of the ECB interest rate decision and press conference from ECB President Mario Draghi, who in speech last Monday, said that stimulus and support measures were still needed to boost in inflation. Geopolitical concerns continued to underline moves in the precious metal, as investors braced for potential headwinds on Thursday that could rattle risk appetite and drive sentiment towards safe-havens such as gold. While pollsters predict that UK Prime Minister Theresa May’s Conservative party will garner enough seats to fend off a competition from the Labour party, investors remain concerned that the Conservative party may not significantly expand its majority by as much as hoped. The final General Election polls have showed that the gap between the Tories and Labour has remained at six points. In Washington, investors braced for former Comey’s testimony before the Senate Intelligence Committee on Russia’s alleged involvement in the U.S election.
