Title: Gold / Silver / Copper futures - weekly outlook: January 30 - February 3
Date: 20170129
Content:
Investing.com - Gold ended little changed on Friday, after weaker-than-expected figures on U.S. fourth quarter growth dampened expectations for a faster rate of interest rate hikes this year. Gold for April delivery settled at $1,190.0 on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange. The precious metal was 1.35% lower for the week, as the stronger U.S. dollar weighed. The annual rate of economic growth slowed to 1.9% in the three months to December the Commerce Department reported Friday, slowing sharply from the 3.5% rate of growth seen in the third quarter. The economy grew just 1.6% in 2016 as a whole, the slowest rate of growth since 2011. The slowdown in growth prompted speculation that the Federal Reserve will avoid hiking interest rates too quickly. Investors also remained cautious as they pondered the economic implications of President Donald Trump's pledges of increased fiscal spending, tax cuts and protectionism. Elsewhere in precious metals trading, silver was at $17.16 a troy ounce late Friday and ended the week little changed. Copper was trading at $2.69 a pound late Friday and ended the week up 2.86%, and platinum was up 0.69% on the day at $988.45 an ounce. In the week ahead, markets will be paying close attention to Friday’s U.S. nonfarm payrolls report for January as well as Wednesday’s policy statement by the Fed. Investors will also be watching central bank meetings in Japan and the UK. Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of these and other significant events likely to affect the markets. Monday, January 30 Financial markets in China will be closed for the Lunar New Year holiday. In the euro zone, Germany is to release preliminary data on inflation. The U.S. is to release figures on personal income and spending as well as a report on pending home sales. Tuesday, January 31 Markets in China will be closed for the Lunar New Year holiday. The Bank of Japan is to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish a policy statement which outlines economic conditions and the factors affecting the monetary policy decision. The announcement is to be followed by a press conference. The euro zone is to release preliminary estimates of consumer price inflation and fourth quarter GDP. European Central Bank President Mario Draghi is to speak at an event in Frankfurt. Canada is to publish its monthly report on GDP. The U.S. is to release private sector data on consumer confidence. Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz is to speak at an event in Alberta. Wednesday, February 1 Markets in China will remain shut for the Lunar New Year holiday. China is to release survey data on manufacturing and service sector activity. New Zealand is to publish its quarterly employment report. The UK is to release data on manufacturing activity. The European Commission is to publish its latest economic forecasts for the European Union. The U.S. is to release the ADP nonfarm payrolls report for January and the Institute for Supply Management is to release its manufacturing PMI. The Federal Reserve is to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish a monetary policy statement. Thursday, February 2 Markets in China will remain shut for the Lunar New Year holiday. Australia is to release data on building approvals and the trade balance. The UK is to release data on manufacturing activity. The Bank of England is to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish the minutes of its monetary policy meeting along with its quarterly inflation report. BoE Governor Mark Carney, along with other policymakers will also hold a press conference to discuss the inflation report. ECB President Mario Draghi is to speak at an event in Slovenia. The U.S. is to publish data on initial jobless claims and labor costs. Friday, February 3 China is to publish its Caixin manufacturing PMI. The UK is to release data on manufacturing activity. Chicago Fed President Charles Evans is to speak. The U.S. is to round up the week data on factory orders and the non-farm payrolls report for January, while the ISM is to release its services PMI.
