Title: Crude oil settles lower ahead of inventory data
Date: 20170808
Content:
Investing.com – Crude futures settled lower on Tuesday, as rising output from major oil producers offset reports that Saudi Arabia is planning to cut exports to Asia next month. On the New York Mercantile Exchange crude futures for September delivery fell 22 cents to settle at $49.17 a barrel, while on London's Intercontinental Exchange, Brent lost $0.36 cents to trade at $52.02 a barrel. Saudi Arabia—the world’s largest producer of crude oil—is expected to cut sales of oil supplies to Asia by up to 10% in September, to stem the global crude glut, according to multiple reports Tuesday. After an initial move higher, crude futures reversed gains, on growing doubts a two-day meeting of Opec and non-Opec on compliance which concludes on Tuesday, would yield tangible results. “The reality is OPEC has no way of enforcing the production caps,” said Gao Jian, an analyst at SCI International. “That has been the problem of the cartel for many years now.” In May, Opec and non-Opec members agreed to extend production cuts for a period of nine months until March, but stuck to production cuts of 1.8 million bpd agreed in November last year. The product-cut agreement would be at risk of falling apart should Opec’s level of compliance continue to waver, according to Lukman Otunuga, a research analyst at FXTM. "The bearish bias towards oil remains intact amid oversupply concerns and there is a risk of the OPEC deal falling apart before March 2018, if members do not see oil prices recover,” Otunga said. Also adding to concerns over the glut in supply, were reports Libya’s largest oil field, was returning to normal after a brief disruption by armed protesters in the coastal city of Zawiya, the National Oil Corporation (NOC) said Monday. This was the second-straight day of falling crude prices ahead of U.S. crude oil inventory data from the American Petroleum Institute later Tuesday as well as a further report from EIA late Wednesday. Analysts forecast crude oil inventories fell by 2.7m barrels in the week ended Aug 4, the sixth-straight week of declines.
