Title: Oil turns higher as traders weigh OPEC cuts, U.S. drilling
Date: 20170306
Content:
Investing.com - Oil prices edged higher during North American morning hours on Monday, reversing overnight losses as market players continued to weigh the prospect of production cuts by major crude-producing nations against a rise in U.S. drilling. Uncertainty surrounding Libya’s crude production following reports of violence near the war-torn country's biggest oil terminal also provided support. The U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude April contract tacked on 16 cents, or around 0.3%, to $53.49 a barrel by 10:15AM ET (15:15GMT), after gaining 72 cents on Friday. Elsewhere, Brent oil for May delivery on the ICE Futures Exchange in London rose 30 cents to $56.20 a barrel after adding 82 cents in the prior session. Oil prices have been trading in a narrow $5 range around the mid-$50s over the past two months as sentiment in oil markets has been torn between rising stockpiles and increased shale production in the U.S. and hopes that oversupply may be curbed by output cuts announced by major global producers. OPEC and non-OPEC countries have made a strong start to lowering their oil output by almost 1.8 million barrels per day by the end of June, with compliance currently at around 94%. At the same time, the number of active U.S. rigs drilling for oil rose by 7 last week, the seventh weekly increase in a row. That brought the total count to 609, the most since October 2015. Oil traders will pay close attention to comments from global oil producers attending the annual CERAWeek Conference in Houston, Texas for further evidence that they are complying with their agreement to cut output. 'Big Oil' figures attending the week-long event include OPEC Secretary General Mohammad Mohammed Barkindo, the oil ministers from Saudi Arabia, Russia and Iraq, as well as executives from major oil companies such as  Chevron  (NYSE:CVX),  Exxon Mobil  (NYSE:XOM) and  BP  (LON:BP). Barkindo told reporters on Sunday that OPEC will decide in May whether to extend its production deal with non-OPEC members. He added that a monitoring committee will meet on March 25. Elsewhere on Nymex, gasoline futures for April climbed 2.6 cents, or around 1.7%, to $1.675 a gallon, while April heating oil increased 1.9 cents to $1.612 a gallon. Natural gas futures for April delivery rallied 9.8 cents, or almost 3.5%, to $2.925 per million British thermal units, as forecasts showing slightly cooler weather on the way boosted the fuel. 
