Title: Crude settles lower amid concerns over rising U.S. oil production
Date: 20170306
Content:
Investing.com – Crude settled lower on Monday, after the International Energy Agency predicted a sharp increase in shale oil growth and a reduction in demand for European refined products. On the New York Mercantile Exchange crude futures for May delivery lost $0.13 to settle at $53.20 a barrel, while on London's Intercontinental Exchange, Brent gained 5 cents to settle at $55.95 a barrel. It was a volatile session for market participants, as large moves in oil prices were driven by headlines. Earlier during the session, oil prices advanced, after Jabbar Al-Luaibi, Iraq’s oil minister said that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), would likely extend its production cuts into the second half of 2017. Gains were short-lived as oil prices pulled back, after the International Energy Agency (IEA) said in a report U.S. shale oil production may grow by 1.4 million barrels per day by 2022 with prices at about $60 barrel and pointed out that demand for European refined products may weaken. U.S. producers will contribute most of the growth in supplies outside OPEC through to 2022, the IEA said. The IEA’s report, fueled concerns that rising U.S. crude and shale production may curtail OPEC's efforts to rebalance supply and demand in the industry. Data from Baker Hughes last week revealed that the number of active U.S. rigs drilling for oil rose by 7 to 609 rigs this week. It was the seventh straight weekly increase while U.S. crude inventories rose for an eight straight week to a record 520.2 million barrels the Energy Information Agency (EIA) revealed last Wednesday. The build-up in U.S. crude oil inventories to record high levels, overshadowed a Reuters survey last week that found OPEC cut its oil output for a second month in February, following a record high compliance level by OPEC members in January. Meanwhile, market participants are likely to turn attention to crude oil inventories expected on Wednesday at 10:30 ET.
