Title: Oil rises after IEA says global oil market close to balance
Date: 20170413
Content:
Investing.com - Oil prices pushed higher on Thursday after the International Energy Agency said global demand for oil is close to outstripping supply following almost three years of surplus production. Global benchmark Brent futures added 13 cents or 0.25% to trade at $55.99 a barrel on the ICE Futures Exchange in London. U.S. crude oil was trading at $53.26 a barrel at 09.20 ET, up 14 cents or 0.26%. Prices were boosted after the IEA said production cuts by major exporters offset a longer-term decline in global demand. The agency said oil stocks across industrialized nations fell by 17.2 million barrels in March, resulting in an increase of 38.5 million barrels, or 425,000 barrels per day, in the first three months of the year. "The net result is that global stocks might have marginally increased in the first quarter versus an implied draw of about 0.2 million bpd," the IEA said. Prices had been almost unchanged earlier in the day as concerns over rising U.S. production offset support from data showing the first weekly drawdown in U.S. oil inventories in a month. The U.S. Energy Information Administration said Wednesday that U.S. crude inventories fell by 2.2 million barrels last week, after climbing in each of the previous three weeks. The drawdown was well above what analysts had been expecting and more than the 1.3 million barrel drop reported Tuesday by industry group the American Petroleum Institute. The EIA’s report also showed that U.S. crude production last week increased by 36,000 barrels per day to a total of 9.235 million barrels a day. In its short-term outlook report released Monday, the EIA said it expects to see record U.S. oil production in 2018. The rebound in U.S. oil output has threatened to derail efforts by the world’s largest exporters aimed at reducing a global supply glut and rebalancing the market. In November of last year, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and other producers, including Russia agreed to cut output by about 1.8 million barrels per day during the first half of 2017. In a monthly report released Wednesday, OPEC said its output continued to fall in March, but the cartel raised its 2017 forecast for supply growth in the U.S. by 200,000 barrels a day.
