Title: Oil stuck in familiar range as investors ponder output cuts, U.S. drilling
Date: 20170307
Content:
Investing.com - Oil prices were little changed during European morning hours on Tuesday, holding in a familiar trading range as market players continued to weigh the prospect of production cuts by major crude-producing nations against a rise in U.S. drilling. The U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude April contract added 7 cents, or around 0.1%, to $53.27 a barrel by 4:55AM ET (09:55GMT), after losing 13 cents on Monday. Elsewhere, Brent oil for May delivery on the ICE Futures Exchange in London tacked on 5 cents to $56.06 a barrel after gaining 11 cents in the prior session. Oil prices have been trading in a narrow $5 range around the mid-$50s over the past two months as sentiment in oil markets has been torn between rising stockpiles and increased shale production in the U.S. and hopes that oversupply may be curbed by output cuts announced by major global producers. OPEC and non-OPEC countries have made a strong start to lowering their oil output by almost 1.8 million barrels per day by the end of June, with compliance currently at around 94%. At the same time, the number of active U.S. rigs drilling for oil rose by 7 last week, the seventh weekly increase in a row. That brought the total count to 609, the most since October 2015. Oil traders will pay close attention to comments from major OPEC figures and other producers attending the annual weeklong CERAWeek Conference in Houston, Texas. Saudi Arabia's energy minister Khalid al-Falih will address the meeting on Tuesday. OPEC Secretary General Mohammad Barkindo also speaks at the conference on Tuesday. Russian Oil Minister Alexander Novak, who was key to bringing non-OPEC countries on board to cut in tandem with OPEC, said Monday that it was too early to discuss if the production deal should be extended beyond May. Elsewhere on Nymex, gasoline futures for April inched up 0.3 cents, or around 0.2%, to $1.685 a gallon, while April heating oil added 0.5 cents to $1.609 a gallon. Natural gas futures for April delivery dipped 3.5 cents, or almost 1.2%, to $2.865 per million British thermal units. 
