Title: Gold dips amid uptick in global bond yields
Date: 20170629
Content:
Investing.com – Gold prices inched lower, as a flurry of comments from central banks bosses hinting at tapering ultra-loose monetary policy measures, pushed bond yields higher and lessened demand for the precious metal. Gold futures for August delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange fell by $3.08, or 0.25%, to $1,245.01 a troy ounce. Global bond yields have ticked higher during the week, after The European Central Bank, Bank of England, and Bank of Canada signaled that measures to tighten monetary policy could be adopted relatively soon. Comments concerning tighter monetary policy measures were expected from the Bank of Canada and the European Central Bank but it was the change in tone from Bank of England governor Mark Carney that caught investors off guard. Bank of England governor Mark Carney, appeared to reverse his recent assertion that there “was no need to raise rates soon”, after he said on Wednesday that “some removal of monetary stimulus is likely to become necessary”. In a rising interest rate environment, investor appetite for gold weakens as the opportunity cost of holding the precious metal increases relative to other interest-bearing assets such as bonds. Investor expectations concerning monetary tightening has weighed on the dollar, which continued to hover around eight-month lows this week, offsetting the potential for deeper losses in the precious metal. Gold remained on track to end the second-quarter less than $1 an ounce from where it began. Dollar-denominated assets such as gold are sensitive to moves in the dollar – A dip in the dollar makes gold cheaper for holders of foreign currency and thus, increases demand. Other precious metals failed to capitalize on a slump in the dollar, as silver futures fell 0.53% to $16.638, a troy ounce while platinum futures lost 0.33% to $920.95. Copper traded at $2.697, up 0.78%, while natural gas, dipped by 1.00% to $3.063.
