Title: Crude gains in Asia as analyst see recovery by refiners in sight
Date: 20170828
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices gained in Asia on Tuesday as the market works through the impact on the U.S. Gulf Coast refining and crude output sectors though a rebound is expected as the damage from the storm and flood get fixed. "It really does depend. Corpus could be back next week, Houston we don't know, but in the next few weeks as things return to normal, we should see a little bit of a price bounce again," said Matt Smith, an analyst with Clipper Data. On the New York Mercantile Exchange crude futures for October delivery rose 0.58% to $46.84 a barrel, while on London's Intercontinental Exchange, Brent gaind 0.47% to $51.66 a barrel. Overnight, crude futures settled lower on Monday, as Tropical Storm Harvey continued to disrupt refinery activity along the U.S. Gulf coast, adding to fears of an uptick in crude oil supplies. Crude oil made a negative start to the week as flooding caused by the storm forced refiners in the Gulf of Mexico region to shutdown, sparking concerns over an excess in crude oil supplies, the primary input at refiners. It is estimated that approximately 331,370 barrels of oil per day (bpd), or 18.94%, of the current oil production of 1,750,000 bpd in the Gulf of Mexico has been shut-in, according to an update from the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement on Monday. While the storm is also expected to disrupt crude oil production, analysts believe the impact of lower crude demand at refineries would outweigh the dip in crude oil production. The U.S. National Hurricane Center said floods caused by Tropical Storm Harvey were expected spread from Texas eastward to Louisiana, home to roughly 3.3 million bpd. The sharp fall in oil prices comes amid a bearish period for crude futures, which slumped to a fourth-straight weekly loss last week, as investors continued to question Opec’s commitment to the global pact to curb production. An Opec meeting on compliance last week, failed to yield any tangible measures to address the group’s waning compliance with the deal to curb output. 
