Title: U.S. natural gas jumps to 15-week high after weekly storage data
Date: 20170511
Content:
Investing.com - U.S. natural gas futures added to gains on Thursday, rising to the strongest level in around 15 weeks after data showed that natural gas supplies in storage in the U.S. rose less than expected last week. U.S. natural gas for June delivery gained 8.0 cents, or around 2.4%, to $3.372 per million British thermal units by 10:35AM ET (14:35GMT). It touched a daily peak of $3.388, a level not seen since January 27. Futures were at around $3.335 prior to the release of the supply data. Prices of the heating fuel rallied 6.5 cents on Wednesday. The U.S. Energy Information Administration said in its weekly report that natural gas storage in the U.S. rose by 45 billion cubic feet in the week ended May 5, below forecasts for a build of 53 billion. That compared with a gain of 67 billion cubic feet in the preceding week, an increase of 68 billion a year earlier and a five-year average rise of 73 billion cubic feet. Total natural gas in storage currently stands at 2.301 trillion cubic feet, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, 13.9% lower than levels at this time a year ago but 12.0% above the five-year average for this time of year. Meanwhile, cool conditions are expected to linger over the northeastern U.S. through early next week, according to forecasters at NatGasWeather.com. A weather system tracking across the Southwest toward Texas will bring showers, but still with mostly comfortable temperatures as highs reach the 60s and 70s. Over the West, warm conditions will give way to cooling this weekend as Pacific systems return. Overall, natural gas demand will remain stronger than normal, mainly driven primarily by the cooler than normal northeastern U.S. Natural gas prices have closely tracked weather forecasts in recent weeks, as traders try to gauge the impact of shifting outlooks on spring demand. Gas use typically hits a seasonal low with spring's mild temperatures, before warmer weather increases demand for gas-fired electricity generation to power air conditioning. Nearly 50% of all U.S. households use gas for heating. 
