Title: Crude futures sink nearly 3% ahead of inventories data
Date: 20170531
Content:
Investing.com – Crude futures settled more than 2% lower on Wednesday, as investors shrugged of a renewed pledge from Saudi Arabia and Russia to reduce the glut in supply. On the New York Mercantile Exchange crude futures for July delivery lost 2.7% to settle at $48.32 a barrel, while on London's Intercontinental Exchange, Brent fell by 3.16% to trade at $50.59 a barrel. Oil prices fell as investors ignored Saudi and Russian Energy ministers’ comments on reducing global inventories, as concerns grew that oil producers that are not part of the global pact to reduce supply would continue to ramp-up production, undermining Opec and its allies’ efforts to curb the glut in supply. At a meeting with his Russian counterpart Alexander Novak, Saudi Energy Minister Khalid al-Falih said on Wednesday “more needed to be done to draw inventories towards the five-year average”. Mr Novak added that a new framework “for continued steady cooperation between Opec and non-Opec” was necessary even after the expiration of the Vienna agreements. Last week, Opec and non-Opec members agreed to extend production cuts for a period of nine months until March, but stuck to production cuts of 1.8 million bpd agreed in November last year, against expectations that the oil cartel was set to announce deeper production cuts. The renewed pledge to bring down global inventories comes ahead of weekly U.S. inventories data from The American Petroleum Institute later in the session at 16:30 EDT while the U.S. Energy Information Administration at 10:30 EDT on Thursday is expected to show crude stockpiles fell by 2.5 million barrels. Despite the expected dip in U.S. inventories, investors remained concerned that a ramp-up in U.S. shale output would keep stockpiles elevated. Goldman Sachs earlier this week downgraded its forecasts for oil prices this year, targeting an average of $55.29 per barrel for Brent, down from its previous forecast of $56.76 a barrel while lowering its expectations WTI to $52.92 per barrel from $54.80.
