Title: Oil prices sink 3%, WTI breaks below $50 ahead of press conference
Date: 20170525
Content:
Investors.com – Oil prices sank more than 3% with the barrel of West Texas Intermediate oil breaking below $50 as market participants await confirmation that major oil producers will extend their agreement to cut output by 1.8 million barrels per day (bpd) for another nine months through March 2018. In December last year, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ (OPEC) and 11 other non-OPEC producers, including Russia, agreed to cut output by about 1.8 million barrels per day between January 1 and June 30 in what was the first joint accord in 15 years. Oil's losses accelerated Thursday after OPEC agreed to extend its production cuts for nine months at the same levels agreed last December, according to media reports citing delegates at the highly anticipated meeting in Vienna. OPEC energy ministers are currently convened with their non-OPEC counterparts in Vienna with a joint press conference that was tentatively scheduled for 11:00AM ET (15:00GMT) but is currently running behind schedule. Prior to the gathering, OPEC president and Saudi Arabia’s energy minister Khalid Al-Falih said that the drawdown of global inventories had begun and that he expected it to continue as the world moved into the high demand season, but that the output reduction agreed in December needed to continue. “To bring inventories to the average of the last five years, more time is needed,” he said. However, Hamza Khan, head of commodities at ING, was unimpressed with the unconfirmed accord, insisting that the original six month agreement had failed to either shrink inventories or boost prices and compared the nine month extension to a “record skipping”. “With continued production out of the U.S. and, crucially, falling costs from producers in the rest of the world, OPEC’s great white hope is that demand will grow fast enough to absorb its eventual resumption of supplies,” Khan said. “With soft demand figures globally, that hope is fading nightly,” he added. Investors appeared to agree with Khan as crude prices traded lower on Thursday. U.S. crude futures tumbled 3.66% to $49.56 by 11:56AM ET (15:56GMT), while Brent oil traded down 3.35% to $52.15.
