Title: Oil prices flat as U.S. production offsets inventory draw
Date: 20170413
Content:
Investing.com - Oil prices were almost unchanged on Thursday as concerns over rising U.S. production offset support from data showing the first weekly drawdown in U.S. oil inventories in a month. Global benchmark Brent futures dipped one cent or 0.02% to $55.85 a barrel on the ICE Futures Exchange in London. U.S. crude oil was trading at $53.06 a barrel at 09.06 GMT, down four cents or 0.06%. The U.S. Energy Information Administration said Wednesday that U.S. crude inventories fell by almost 2.2 million barrels last week, after climbing in each of the previous three weeks. The drawdown was well above what analysts had been expecting and more than the 1.3 million barrel drop reported Tuesday by industry group the American Petroleum Institute. The EIA’s report also showed that U.S. crude production last week increased by 36,000 barrels per day to a total of 9.235 million barrels a day. In its short-term outlook report released Monday, the EIA said it expects to see record U.S. oil production in 2018. The rebound in U.S. oil output comes at a time when other major producers are considering extending an output cut agreement in a bid to reduce a global supply glut and rebalance the market. Oil prices had been moving higher earlier in the week following reports that Saudi Arabia told officials from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries that it wants to extend an agreement to cut output for another six months when the group meets in May. In November of last year, OPEC and other producers, including Russia agreed to cut output by about 1.8 million barrels per day during the first half of 2017. A joint committee of ministers from OPEC and non-OPEC producers will meet in late April to present its recommendation on the fate of the pact. A final decision on whether or not to extend the deal beyond June will be taken by the oil cartel on May 25. In a monthly report released Wednesday, OPEC said its output continued to fall in March, but the cartel raised its 2017 forecast for supply growth in the U.S. by 200,000 barrels a day.
