Title: Crude holds weaker in Asia on continued bearish tone after OPEC meet
Date: 20170525
Content:
Investing.com - Crude prices dropped in Asia on Friday fresh from a sharp overnight drop in the U.S. after OPEC extended output cuts another nine months as expected and markets quickly took profits on gains made in the run-up to the decision. On the New York Mercantile Exchange crude futures for July delivery fell 0.27% to $48.77 a barrel, while on London's Intercontinental Exchange, Brent was last quoited down 0.41% to $51.25 a barrel. However, at least one analyst said the decline could prove short-lived. "This is a bit of an overreaction. Markets are heading towards more rebalancing in Q3 and Q4 of this year," said Wood Mackenzie's research director for Asia refining, Sushant Gupta. Overnight, crude futures settled below $50, tumbling nearly 5%, after the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and its allies’ decision to extend production cuts for nine more months, failed to meet traders’ expectations that the cartel group would announce deeper cuts. OPEC and non-OPEC members agreed to extend production cuts for a period of nine months until March on Thursday, after the output cuts agreed in November last year failed to rein in the glut in supply, which has pressured oil prices for nearly three years. The nine-month extension was widely anticipated but traders were hopeful that OPEC would take a more aggressive approach to curb oversupply with deeper cuts, in the wake of a rise in non-OPEC output. OPEC, however, announced that no new non-OPEC members will join the global deal to reduce supply and it would adhere to the production cuts of 1.8 million barrels a day agreed in late November. OPEC president and Saudi Arabia’s energy minister Khalid Al-Falih said current levels were sufficient to “reach the five-year average by the end of the year” and expected to reach target before year-end. Falih said he expected a “healthy return” for U.S. shale and remained defiant that a boom in U.S. shale won’t derail OPEC’s effort to tackle the demand and supply imbalance. Nigeria and Libya will remain exempt from making cuts while Iran would be allowed to retain the right to increase production to the same reference level, around 3.797 million barrels a day, agreed in November last year. 
