Title: Gold on track for fourth straight day of gains
Date: 20170516
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices edged higher on Tuesday, as U.S. political jitters weighed on the dollar, while mostly downbeat economic data dampened expectations of a rebound in second-quarter U.S. economic growth. Gold for June delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange gained $7.14 or 0.58%, to $1,237.13 a troy ounce by 13:54 EDT. Sentiment shifted towards safe-havens on Tuesday, as political turmoil in Washington heightened, after two U.S. officials said President Trump disclosed sensitive information to Russia’s foreign minister at a meeting, last week. In his tweets, President Trump defended his decision to share sensitive information with Russia, insisting that he had “the absolute right” to share “facts” about terrorism with Russia. The dollar nosedived to a six-month low, as investors grew concerned that the recent political turmoil in Washington, could delay the Trump administration's plans to introduce its pro-growth economic agenda. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, fell by 0.71% to 98.11 by 13:14 EDT. Dollar-denominated assets such as gold are sensitive to moves in the dollar – A dip in the dollar makes gold cheaper for holders of foreign currency and thus, increases demand. Meanwhile, weaker than expected economic data poured cold water on expectations that U.S. economic growth would rebound in the second quarter of the year, after housing data fell below expectations. The Commerce Department said Tuesday, housing starts dropped 2.6% to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.17 million units, the lowest level in five months, and below expectations for a 3.7% rise. The Federal Reserve said Tuesday that U.S. industrial production at factories, mines and utilities rose 1% in April from March, well above expectations for 0.4% increase. The ongoing political turmoil in Washington as well as the recent batch of softer economic data has dampened expectations that the Fed will opt for an aggressive rate hike path. According to investing.com’s Fed rate monitor tool 67% of traders expect the Federal Reserve to hike its benchmark rate in June, compared to more than 80% of traders in the previous week. The weaker dollar fuelled a rally in commodities across the board, as silver futures rose 1.07% to $16.781 a troy ounce while platinum added 1.07% to trade at $938.60. Copper gained 0.47% to $2.551 while natural gas traded at $3.220, down 3.85%.
