Title: Gold little changed to start the week as focus shifts to Fed
Date: 20170612
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices were little changed in North American trading on Monday, as investors looked ahead to a Federal Reserve policy meeting later this week, while keeping an eye on political developments in the U.K. Comex gold futures were at $1,270.62 a troy ounce by 8:00AM ET (1200GMT), down less than $1.00. Meanwhile, spot gold was at $1,268.80. Gold prices fell on Friday to notch a third-straight decline after sliding to a one-week low of $1,266.70. A key focus for markets this week is the Federal Reserve's two-day policy meeting that ends on Wednesday. With the U.S. central bank is widely expected to raise interest rates, investors' focus will be on any fresh hints on the pace of further tightening in the months to come and next year. Market players will also pay close attention to details of the Fed's plan to reduce its $4.5 trillion balance sheet later this year. The median Fed policymaker forecast is for two more rate increases by year-end, after already raising its benchmark interest rate once this year, by a quarter percentage point in March. But a recent run of disappointing U.S. economic data combined with growing uncertainty about the Trump administration's ability to pass tax and healthcare reforms sparked doubts over the Fed's ability to raise rates as much as it would like before the end of the year. According to Investing.com’s Fed Rate Monitor Tool, conviction for a move beyond this week's widely expected rate hike has faded, with just 40% of market players expecting another rate increase later this year. Besides the Fed, this week's calendar also features U.S. data on inflation, retail sales, producer prices, building permits, housing starts, initial jobless claims, industrial production, consumer sentiment as well as surveys on manufacturing conditions in the Philadelphia and New York regions. Meanwhile, British Prime Minister Theresa May’s grip on power looked precarious after her party unexpectedly lost its parliamentary majority in the election on Thursday. May will try to convince lawmakers from her Conservative Party at a private meeting in parliament on Monday that she should remain as leader. If she fails at the meeting to reassure lawmakers that she can govern effectively her critics are likely to step up calls for her to go. The political turmoil comes a week before Britain is due to start negotiating the terms of its exit from the European Union in talks of unprecedented complexity that are supposed to wrap up by the end of March 2019, when Britain actually leaves. Also on the Comex, silver futures dipped 15.9 cents, or about 0.9%, to $17.06 a troy ounce. Elsewhere in metals trading, platinum ticked up 0.4% to $944.15, while palladium added around 1.5% to $868.92 an ounce, not far from Friday's 16-year high. Copper futures lost 2.0 cents to $2.630 a pound. 
