Title: Gold gains in Asia in buy data day, Korea impasse continues
Date: 20170813
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices gained slightly in Asia on Monday in a buy regional data day, but North Korea off the boil for now. Gold futures for December delivery rose 0.05% to $1,293.36 a troy ounce on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange. In China, fixed-asset investment rose 8.3%, compared with a 8.6% gain seen in July on year along with industrial production which gained 6.4%, missing a 7.2% gain seen and retail sales increased 10.4%, compared to a 10.8% gain seen. Japan's second quarter surged an unexpected 4..0% on year as investment in plant and equipment lifted sentiment for the sixth straight quarter of expansion, official data released on Monday showed for the fastest pace of growth since January-March 2015. The figure beat a 2.5% gain expected on year and saw the quarter pace at 1.0, well above the 0.6% seen. Japan, second quarter GDP was expected to rise a provisional 2.5% on year and at a 0.6% pace on quarter. Ahead this week, the Fed’s latest meeting will be in focus as investors look for more hints on the timing of the next U.S. rate hike. A report on U.S. retail sales will also be closely watched. Elsewhere, UK data on inflation and employment will be in the spotlight amid ongoing concerns over the economic fallout from Brexit. Last week, gold prices rose to a two-month high on Friday following a weaker-than-expected U.S. inflation report that investors worried would delay plans for another interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve this year. A Labor Department report showed that U.S. consumer prices edged up 0.1% in July from the prior month, bringing the annual increase in the consumer price index to 1.2%. The data was the latest in a string of weak inflation readings that investors worry will make the Fed more cautious about plans for a third rate hike this year. Futures traders are pricing in about a 35% chance of another rate hike by December, according to Investing.com’s Fed Rate Monitor Tool. Gold is highly sensitive to rising rates, which lift the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding assets such as bullion, while boosting the dollar, in which it is priced. Demand for the precious metal was also underpinned by increased safe haven demand amid heightened geopolitical tensions between the U.S. and North Korea.  
