Title: Brent, NYMEX fall in Asia after early gains on API estimates
Date: 20170104
Content:
Investing.com -Crude prices gave up early gain in Asia Thursday after the American Petroleum Institute (API) reported a larger-than-expected drop in stocks with the focus now on official figures to confirm. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for February delivery fell 0.19% to $53.16 a barrel, while global benchmark Brent crude eased 0.34% to $56.29 a barrel on London's Intercontinental Exchange. The Caixin services PMI for China rose to 53.4, a tick above 53.3 expected. "Improved rates of new order growth were also seen across both monitored sectors in December. The pace of new business expansion accelerated to its strongest since July 2014 at manufacturing companies amid reports of improving client demand. At the same time, growth in new work at services companies quickened to a 17-month record. Subsequently, the rate of composite new order growth was the fastest since March 2013," Caixin said in a release. "Despite stronger expansions in activity and new work, service providers increased their payrolls at a softer pace in December. Furthermore, the latest increase in staff numbers was the slowest for three months and modest overall. Meanwhile, job shedding persisted across China’s manufacturing sector, though the rate of reduction was little-changed from November. At the composite level, employment fell slightly in December after broadly stabilising in the previous month." Earlier, API said crude oil inventories last week dropped 7.4 million barrels, compared to a 1.7 million barrels decline seen. The estimates followed last week’s build of 4.20 million barrels that was the fifth draw in the last seven weeks. More closely-watched official figures from the U.S. Department of Energy are due on Thursday. Gasoline supplies rose 4.3 million barrels, while distillate stocks jumped 5.2 million barrels and supplies at Cushing, Oklahoma rose by 500,000 barrels. Elsehwere in the oil market, the focus remains on a strong dollar and an OPEC committee meeting Jan. 21-22 in Vienna to monitor compliance with an agreement along with non-OPEC members to trim nearly 1.8 million barrels per day (bpd) from global markets. 
