Title: Gold higher in Asia heading into Fed rate views
Date: 20170614
Content:
Investing.com - Gold gained in Asia on Wednesday in cautious trade as investors awaited the latest Fed rate decision and forward-looking guidance on plans to trim its massive balance sheet. Gold futures for August delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange rose 0.23% to $1,271.55 a troy ounce. China reported industrial production for May rose a faster than expected 6.5% on year, and retail sales also gained a clip quicker at 10.7%, while fixed-asset investment came in a less than seen 8.6%.Overnight, gold prices traded at break-even on Tuesday, after expectations that the Federal Reserve will increase interest rates on Wednesday weighed on gold, as the precious metal struggled to capitalise on a slump in the dollar. Gold futures traded in a narrow range, as investors held off initiating large positions in the precious metal ahead of the start of the Federal Reserve’s June meeting, which concludes on Wednesday, with the majority of traders expecting an interest rate hike. In a rising interest rate environment, investor appetite for gold weakens as the opportunity cost of holding the precious metal increases relative to other interest-bearing assets such as bonds. Investors are expected to closely monitor Fed chair Janet Yellen’s press conference for any clues on future monetary policy, and an update on the Federal Reserve’s plan to reduce its $4.5 trillion balance sheet. Growing investor skepticism on the pace of rate hikes has started to grow in recent weeks amid signs of cracks in the US economy, with some analysts suggesting that Wednesday’s widely expected interest rate hike could be final hike of 2017. “Weakness in consumption is becoming more visible due to emerging headwinds from negative wage growth in real terms, combined with falling housing affordability and tighter credit standards. And while investment is finally picking up after being a drag on growth for many quarters, it has yet to offset the flagging consumer.” Said Anna Stupnytska, global economist at Fidelity International.  
