Title: Brent, NYMEX gain in Asia in thin trade with U.S. markets closed
Date: 20170115
Content:
Investing.com - Crude prices gained in Asia on Monday in think trade with the U.S. market slated for a public holiday and investors looking ahead to a monthly OPEC report for details on output under a plan to trim 1.2 million barrels a day from global markets for the first half of the New Year. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in February gained 0.32% to $52.54 a barrel. On the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for March delivery inched up 0.05% to $55.62 a barrel. Japan's core machinery orders fell in November at the fastest pace in seven months by 5.1% in November from the previous month, data showed on Monday, more than the median estimate for a 1.7% decline. Weekly figures on U.S. stockpiles of crude and refined products on Wednesday and Thursday, a day late because of the U.S. holiday on Monday, will be eyed on strength of demand in the world’s largest oil consumer. Meanwhile, investors will keep an eye out for monthly reports from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Counties and the International Energy Agency to gauge global supply and demand levels. Last week, oil futures finished lower on Friday, logging their first weekly decline in five weeks amid doubts over the implementation of a planned deal by global crude producers to scale back output. January 1 marked the official start of the deal agreed by OPEC and non-OPEC member countries such as Russia in November last year to reduce output by almost 1.8 million barrels per day. The deal, if carried out as planned, should reduce global supply by about 2%. However, some traders remain skeptical that the planned cuts will be as substantial as the market currently expects. While major oil producers, such as Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, have so far showed signs that they are sticking to their pledge to cut back output, others, such as Libya have ramped up production. OPEC plans to release its monthly oil report on January 18 and the IEA’s monthly report is due the day after, but both would come just over two weeks after the output cuts officially began. As a result, markets will have to wait until the January report in mid-February for further evidence that OPEC members are adhering to planned output cuts. Meanwhile, market players shrugged off a report showing a downtick in U.S. drilling activity last week. According to oilfield services provider Baker Hughes, the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. last week decreased by 7 to 522. That was the first decline in the oil-rig count in 10 weeks. 
