Title: Oil Climbs as OPEC Tightening Dovetails With U.S. Supply Drop
Date: 20171205
Content:
(Bloomberg) -- Crude rallied as lower OPEC production and signs of shrinking U.S. oil inventories bolstered expectations for an end to the global surplus. Futures rose as much as 0.8 percent Tuesday in New York after shedding 1.5 percent a day earlier. Output by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries last month slid to the lowest in half a year, evidence the cartel is succeeding in reducing a glut. Oil stockpiles in the U.S. probably decreased for a third week, according to a survey of analysts before the release of government data on Wednesday. OPEC members “continue to abide by their cuts,” Gene McGillian, a market research manager at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut, said by telephone. “Signs that U.S. inventory levels continue to come down and demand stays strong will probably get the market to restart its rally.” Oil has advanced the last three months as OPEC and allied producers curbed output and last week pledged to extend supply limits through all of 2018.  Goldman Sachs Group  Inc (NYSE:GS). forecasts oil prices will retain strength at least through next year. Still, the agreement by OPEC and powerhouse oil states such as Russia may lift prices enough to spur U.S. shale explorers to increase drilling, a scenario that threatens to regenerate the glut. “We still think U.S. production growth is doing to be surprising quite a few people to the upside next year,” Michael Loewen, a commodities strategist at Scotiabank in Toronto, said by telephone. Investor sentiment is “much more upbeat right now.” West Texas Intermediate for January delivery increased 36 cents to $57.83 a barrel at 1:03 p.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Total volume traded was about 30 percent below the 100-day average. Brent for February settlement added 63 cents to $63.08 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The global benchmark crude traded at a premium of $5.20 to February WTI. See also: Oil to Open 2018 Stuck Between Thirst for Growth, Wary Investors Goldman increased its 2018 Brent estimate to $62 a barrel, from $58, and its WTI forecast to $57.50, from $55. U.S. crude stockpiles probably declined by 2.32 million barrels last week, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey before an Energy Information Administration report on Wednesday. Inventories at the key pipeline hub in Cushing, Oklahoma, probably slid by 2.4 million barrels, a separate forecast compiled by Bloomberg showed. The industry-funded American Petroleum Institute’s report is scheduled to release its stockpile data on Tuesday. Market news: 
