Title: Gold / Silver / Copper Prices - Weekly Outlook: October 23 - 27
Date: 20171022
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices fell on Friday, pressured lower by the stronger U.S. dollar which was boosted after President Donald Trump's plans to overhaul the tax code cleared a critical hurdle. Gold futures for December delivery settled down 0.59% at $1,282.42 on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange. For the week, the precious metal was down 1.86%, which means it has fallen in five of the past six weeks. The dollar rose on Friday, making gold more expensive for holders of other currencies, after Senate Republicans approved a budget measure that will allow them to pursue tax cuts without support from the Democratic Party. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, was up 0.61% at 93.57 in late trade. It was its largest one day gain since October 2. The index ended the week up 0.69%, its fifth weekly increase in six weeks. Investors expect a fiscal boost to push up inflation, adding pressure on the U.S. Federal Reserve to raise interest rates, known as the "Trumpflation" trade. Gold is highly sensitive to rising rates, which lift the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding assets such as bullion, while boosting the dollar, in which it is priced. But Republicans have yet to produce a tax reform bill amid divisions over what cuts to make and how to pay for them and analysts have warned that the White House still faces a long battle to push through its agenda. Elsewhere in precious metals trading, silver was down 1.21% at $17.04 a troy ounce late Friday, bringing its weekly decline to 2.22%, while platinum settled at $926.00. Among base metals, copper pared early gains and closed at $3.169 a pound. The industrial metal was still up 1.03% for the week after Monday’s rally to three-year highs on the back of upbeat Chinese economic data. The country accounts for almost half the world’s copper consumption. In the week ahead, investors will be watching the European Central Bank meeting for further details on plans to scale back its massive stimulus program. Markets will keep an eye on a preliminary reading of third-quarter U.S. growth to further assess the impact of recent hurricanes on economic activity and how it could affect the Federal Reserve’s view on monetary policy. Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of these and other significant events likely to affect the markets. Monday, October 23 Canada is to release data on wholesale sales. Tuesday, October 24 The euro zone is to release data on manufacturing and service sector activity. Wednesday, October 25 Australia is to release data on inflation. The Ifo Institute is to report on German business climate. The UK is to release a preliminary estimate of third quarter growth. The U.S. is to release reports on durable goods orders and new home sales. The Bank of Canada is to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish a rate statement which outlines economic conditions and the factors affecting the monetary policy decision. The announcement is to be followed by a press conference. Thursday, October 26 New Zealand is to publish trade data. The ECB is to announce its latest monetary policy decision. The announcement is to be followed by a press conference with President Mario Draghi. The U.S. is to report on initial jobless claims and pending home sales. Friday, October 27 Japan is to release its latest inflation figures. The U.S. is to round up the week with preliminary data on third quarter growth. 
