Title: Crude gains in Asia after China Caixin manufacturing PMI surprises
Date: 20170731
Content:
Investing.com - Crude gained on Tuesday in Asia as China's Caixin manufacturing index showed a surprise July gain, underlying demand prospects. On the New York Mercantile Exchange crude futures for September delivery edged up 0.12% to $50.23 a barrel, while on London's Intercontinental Exchange, Brent added 0.08% to $52.76 a barrel. The Caixin manufacturing PMI came in at 51.1 on Tuesday, a better than expected figure that the 50.4 seen and aiding markets higher.On Monday. the CFLP manufacturing PMI reached 51.4, a trade below expected, but still in expansion, while a 54.5 for the services PMI also was seen as steady. Any level above 50 denotes expansion. "Operating conditions in the manufacturing sector improved further in July, suggesting the economy's growth momentum will be sustained," Zhengsheng Zhong, an economist at CEBM Group, said in a statement accompanying Tuesday's release. "That said, it's unlikely that financial regulatory tightening will be relaxed." Analysts estimate crude oil inventories were down 2.9 million barrels in the past week, while distillates fell 225,000 barrels adn gasoline stocks dipped 1.050 million barrels. Overnight, crude futures settled higher on Monday, as investors cheered news of a producers’ meeting slated for next week and possible sanctions from the U.S against Opec-member Venezuela. Crude futures rose above $50 a barrel for the first in two months, after U.S. officials said sanctions on Venezuela’s oil sector could be announced as early as Monday, in response to an election held on Sunday, which Washington has called a “sham”. Also supporting upbeat sentiment on oil prices, were reports from several news agencies suggesting that some members of the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (Opec) and non-Opec nations will meet on Aug 7-9 in Abu Dhabi to discuss how to increase compliance with the deal to cut production by 1.8m barrels per day (bpd) to March 2018. The reports come a week after ministers from major crude-producing nations gathered in St. Petersburg, Russia, and vowed to increase compliance while Saudi Arabia said it would limit crude oil exports at 6.6 million bpd. Opec’s compliance rate with deal to curb production, fell to 78% in June, the IEA said in its report earlier this month. The rally in crude futures comes after weeks of bearish sentiment pressured prices to slump under $42 a barrel amid fears that growing U.S. crude stockpiles would undermine Opec and its allies’ efforts to stem the glut in the supply. U.S. crude supplies, however, have fallen four weeks in row while production activity has also eased, with just 10 rig added in July, the fewest since May 2016.  
