Title: Oil prices surge as concerns over U.S. supply glut ease
Date: 20170223
Content:
Investing.com – Crude futures surged early during session to trade near its 52-week high, after a report showed a surprise fall in U.S. inventories. On the New York Mercantile Exchange crude futures for April delivery rose 1.51% to trade at $54.40 a barrel, while on London's Intercontinental Exchange, Brent added 70 cents to trade at 56.53 a barrel. For the week ending February 17, The U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said that crude oil inventories only rose by 0.564 million compared to estimates of an increase of 3.745 million barrels. Gasoline inventories decreased by 2.628 million against expectations for a draw of only 0.888 million barrels while distillate stockpiles fell by 4.924 million barrels, compared to expectations of a 0.483 million decline. The bullish data in crude stockpiles, bucks a trend of higher-than-expected crude inventories for six-consecutive weeks and eases concerns that record levels of supply may curb OPEC’s efforts to correct the demand and supply imbalance in the industry. Last week’s batch of U.S. energy reports from both the Energy information Agency (EIA) and oilfield services provider Baker Hughes, revealed a rise in U.S. crude inventories to record levels and an increase in the number of active U.S. rigs drilling for oil, respectively. Crude prices have continued to be supported by OPEC, after the oil cartel signalled the possibility of further cuts, following comments from OPEC Secretary General, Mohammed Barkindo, who estimated that OPEC member states are about 90% in compliance with a global pact to cut production and noted the willingness of non-OPEC members to comply with the deal. In November last year, The OPEC and other producers, including Russia agreed to cut output by about 1.8 million barrels per day (bpd) in an effort to combat the oversupply issue that has pressured prices over the last two years. Meanwhile, market participants turn attention to the  Baker Hughes rig count, due to be released on Friday at 13:00 ET.
