Title: Gold pushes higher ahead of busy week
Date: 20170313
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices pushed higher on Monday, kicking the week off with gains ahead of a range of potentially market-moving events, including the Dutch election, the U.K.’s Brexit bill vote and an interest rate decision in the U.S. Comex gold futures rose $2.50, or around 0.2%, to $1,204.05 a troy ounce by 10:00AM ET (14:00GMT). It settled lower for the ninth session in a row on Friday, hitting its weakest since January 31 at $1,194.50 after solid U.S. employment data reinforced expectations of a Fed rate hike this week. Meanwhile, spot gold was little changed at $1,204.50 per ounce. The Dutch election on Wednesday is being watched as a bellwether for the spread of populism in Europe, particularly ahead of next month's French election. Opinion polls have suggested that Dutch nationalist Geert Wilders' right-wing Freedom Party, which wants to take the Netherlands out of the European Union and stop Muslim immigration, has lost its lead to more mainstream opponents. However, a diplomatic standoff with Turkey over the weekend threatened to overshadow the final stretch of campaigning and influence voting in Wilders' favor with less than 48 hours to polling day, prompting investors to remain weary over the possibility of a Brexit or Trump-style shock result. Meanwhile, markets braced for U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May to trigger Article 50, which kicks off the process of exiting the European Union. Britain's Article 50 Brexit bill returns to the House of Commons on Monday for lawmakers to debate and vote on conditions attached to it by members of the House of Lords. If the Brexit bill is passed Monday, it could allow Theresa May to announce the triggering of Article 50 as early as Tuesday, when she is due to brief parliament on last week's EU summit. Elsewhere, the Federal Reserve is scheduled to conclude its two-day policy meeting on Wednesday, with most market participants expecting the U.S. central bank to raise the fed funds target range by a quarter point, which would put it in a range between 0.75%-1%. According to Investing.com’s Fed Rate Monitor Tool, market expectations for a rate hike this week stood at 93%. Fed Chair Janet Yellen's post-meeting press conference will be closely watched for clues on the pace of future rate hikes. Fed officials previously projected three rate hikes in 2017, but that might move up to four. Besides the Fed, this week's calendar also features U.S. data on inflation, retail sales, building permits, housing starts, initial jobless claims, industrial production, consumer sentiment as well as surveys on manufacturing conditions in the Philadelphia and New York regions. Another event markets are watching is the expiration of the U.S. debt ceiling extension in the middle of the week, though the government has sufficient funding until sometime in the fall. The White House, meanwhile, is expected to release its budget Thursday. 
