Title: Gold / Silver / Copper futures - weekly outlook: August 14 - 18
Date: 20170813
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices rose to a two-month high on Friday following a weaker-than-expected U.S. inflation report that investors worried would delay plans for another interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve this year. Gold futures for December delivery settled up 0.38% at $1,295.00 on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest close since June 6. A Labor Department report showed that U.S. consumer prices edged up 0.1% in July from the prior month, bringing the annual increase in the consumer price index to 1.2%. The data was the latest in a string of weak inflation readings that investors worry will make the Fed more cautious about plans for a third rate hike this year. Futures traders are pricing in about a 35% chance of another rate hike by December, according to Investing.com’s Fed Rate Monitor Tool. Gold is highly sensitive to rising rates, which lift the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding assets such as bullion, while boosting the dollar, in which it is priced. Demand for the precious metal was also underpinned by increased safe haven demand amid heightened geopolitical tensions between the U.S. and North Korea. Elsewhere in precious metals trading, silver was at $17.07 a troy ounce late Friday, after hitting $17.24 in the previous session, its highest since June 14. For the week, silver was up 5.24%, the largest weekly percentage gain since July 2016. Platinum was up 0.19% to $987.8 a troy ounce after rising to $995.55 earlier, the most since March 2. It was up 2.23% for the week. Palladium slid 0.34% to $894.02 a troy ounce to end the week up 2.27%. Meanwhile, copper climbed 0.41% to $2.91 a pound to end the week with a gain of 1.01%. The industrial metal has been boosted in recent weeks from improved demand prospects from China and the country’s potential ban on scrap imports. In the coming week, Wednesday’s minutes of the Fed’s latest meeting will be in focus as investors look for more hints on the timing of the next U.S. rate hike. A report on U.S. retail sales will also be closely watched. Elsewhere, UK data on inflation and employment will be in the spotlight amid ongoing concerns over the economic fallout from Brexit. Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of these and other significant events likely to affect the markets. Monday, August 14 New Zealand is to release data on retail sales. Japan is to produce preliminary figures on second quarter growth. China is to publish reports on industrial production and fixed asset investment. Tuesday, August 15 The Reserve Bank of Australia is to publish the minutes of its latest monetary policy meeting. In the euro zone, Germany is to release preliminary data on second quarter growth. Switzerland is to release inflation data. The UK is also to report on consumer price inflation. The U.S. is to produce reports on retail sales and manufacturing activity in the New York region. Wednesday, August 16 Australia is to release data on the wage price index. The UK is to publish its monthly employment report. The euro zone is to produce revised data on first quarter economic growth. Canada is to report on foreign securities purchases. The U.S. is to release data on building permits and housing starts and the Fed is to publish the minutes of its latest monetary policy meeting. Thursday, August 17 New Zealand is to release data on producer prices. Australia is to publish its monthly employment report. The UK is to produce retail sales data. The euro zone is to release revised inflation data and the European Central Bank is to publish the minutes of its latest monetary policy meeting. Canada is to report on manufacturing sales. The U.S. is to release data on jobless claims, industrial production manufacturing activity in the Philadelphia region. Dallas Fed President Robert Kaplan is also to speak. Friday, August 18 Canada is to report on inflation and retail sales. The U.S. is to round up the week with data on consumer sentiment.
