Title: Gold / Silver / Copper Prices - Weekly Outlook: September 3 - 7
Date: 20180902
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices look likely to remain under pressure this week with the prospect of higher U.S. interest rates to the front of metal traders’ minds ahead of Friday’s U.S. jobs report. The non-farm payrolls report for August is due out on Friday and is expected to show that the economy added 190,000 jobs while the unemployment rate ticked lower. U.S. financial markets will be closed on Monday for the Labor Day holiday. Concerns over trade tensions and emerging market turmoil will also remain in focus. Last week the U.S. reached a deal with Mexico aimed at overhauling the North American Free Trade Agreement, but talks with Canada stalled hours before a Friday deadline. Separately, the Trump administration is preparing to slap a fresh round of tariffs on Chinese imports, escalating a trade row with Beijing. Gold futures edged higher on Friday, paring losses for the week but still notching up a fifth consecutive monthly decline, pressured lower by the stronger dollar. December gold futures settled up 0.16% at $1,206.90 on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange. The slight gain helped trim losses for the week to 0.5%. For the month prices were down 1.91%, marking a fifth straight monthly decline. Gold prices have fallen around 8% so far this year, pressured lower by the stronger dollar and rising interest rates. Investors have also shunned the precious metal despite an escalation in global trade tensions, indicating that gold may be losing its safe haven status. Elsewhere in precious metals trading, silver settled down 0.13% at $14.575 a troy ounce. Platinum settled at $787.80, 0.51% lower for the day, to end the week down 0.34%. Among base metals, copper ended at $2.663, down 2.01% for the day, for a weekly loss of 1.85%. Copper prices have been hit by fears that a trade spat between the U.S. and China will act as a drag on the Chinese economy, undermining demand for metals used in construction and manufacturing. China accounts for about half the world’s demand for copper and other industrial materials. Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of significant events likely to affect the markets. Monday, September 3 Australia is to release data on retail sales and company operating profits. Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda is to speak at an event in Tokyo. The UK is to publish data on manufacturing activity. Markets in the U.S. and Canada will be closed for the Labor Day holiday. Tuesday, September 4 The Reserve Bank of Australia is to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish a rate statement which outlines economic conditions and the factors affecting the monetary policy decision. The UK is to publish data on construction activity. Bank of England Governor Mark Carney along with other policymakers are to testify on inflation and the economic outlook before Parliament's Treasury Committee. Later in the day, the Institute for Supply Management is to publish its manufacturing index. Wednesday, September 5 Australia is to release data on second quarter gross domestic product. The UK is to publish data on service sector activity. Canada is to produce figures on trade and labor productivity. Later in the day, the Bank of Canada is to announce its latest monetary policy decision. Thursday, September 6 Australia is to release trade figures. In the U.S., the ADP nonfarm payrolls report and the ISM’s non-manufacturing index will be released. Friday, September 7 China is to publish trade data Canada is to publish its latest employment report. The U.S. is to round up the week with the non-farm payrolls report for August.
