Title: Gold / Silver / Copper Prices - Weekly Outlook: January 15 - 19
Date: 20180114
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices rose for the third straight session on Friday to hit fresh four month highs after hawkish European Central Bank minutes boosted the euro to multi-year highs against the dollar. Gold futures for February delivery settled up 1.19% at $1,338.30 on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange after rising as high as $1,340.00 earlier, the most since September 13. For the week, the precious metal was up 0.95%, its fifth consecutive weekly gain. The euro rallied to more than three-year highs against the dollar on Friday as the single currency was boosted by hopes that the European Central Bank will begin to scale back its massive monetary stimulus program this year. The stronger euro weighed on the dollar, sending the U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, down 1.13% to 90.62, its lowest level since January 2015. A dollar-denominated commodity, gold becomes cheaper for overseas buyers when the U.S. currency weakens. Gold was also boosted after data showing that U.S. consumer prices rose in December, ending the year on a slightly stronger note. The data was seen as unlikely to alter the Federal Reserve’s plans for three rate hikes this year. Gold struggles to compete with yield-bearing assets like Treasuries as borrowing costs rise. Elsewhere in precious metals trading, silver was up 1.64% at $17.24 a troy ounce late Friday from Thursday’s two-week low of $16.89. Platinum was up 0.8% at $998.7, after hitting a four month peak of $1,003.80 earlier. Palladium rallied 4.06% to $1,119.90 an ounce late Friday amid fresh concerns over a supply crunch. Palladium posted the strongest increase among precious metals in 2017, advancing 57% amid concerns over demand outpacing supply. Among base metals, copper ended Friday down 0.31% at $3.223 a pound. In the holiday-shortened week ahead, the U.S. economic calendar will be light, with a report on the housing sector expected to draw the most attention. China is slated to release what will be closely watched fourth-quarter growth data, while in Europe investors will await monthly inflation data to assess how fast the ECB could start unwinding its asset purchase program Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of these and other significant events likely to affect the markets. Monday, January 15 Financial markets in the U.S. are to remain closed for the Martin Luther King Day holiday. Tuesday, January 16 New Zealand is to release data on business confidence. The UK is to release inflation data for December. The U.S. is to publish data on manufacturing activity in the New York region. Swiss National Bank Chairman Thomas Jordan is to speak at an event in Zurich. Wednesday, January 17 The euro zone is to produce revised inflation data. The U.S. is to report on industrial production. The Bank of Canada to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish a rate statement which outlines economic conditions and the factors affecting the monetary policy decision. The announcement is to be followed by a press conference. Cleveland Fed President Loretta Mester is to speak at an event in New Jersey. Thursday, January 18 Australia is to publish its latest jobs report. China is to release a string of data including data on fourth quarter economic growth, industrial production and fixed asset investment. The U.S. is also to publish a flurry of data, including reports on building permits, housing starts, jobless claims and manufacturing activity in the Philadelphia region. Friday, January 19 New Zealand is to release a report on manufacturing activity. The UK is to report on retail sales. Canada is to publish data on manufacturing sales and foreign securities purchases. The U.S. is to round up the week with preliminary data on consumer sentiment.
