Title: Gold / Silver / Copper Prices - Weekly Outlook: October 22 - 26
Date: 20181021
Content:
Investing.com - This week precious metals traders will continue to watch developments in equity markets and monitor geopolitical risks after gold prices notched up a third week of gains. Investors will also be focusing on Friday’s data on U.S. third quarter growth, while monetary policy decisions from the European Central Bank and Bank of Canada will also be closely watched. The GDP data is expected to show that U.S. economic growth slowed in the third quarter from the second, when the economy grew at its fastest pace in four years. Investors will also be getting an update on the health of the U.S. housing market, which has been hit by rising borrowing costs as a result of Fed rate hikes, with the release of figures on new and pending home sales. Data on Friday showed that sales of existing homes fell for a sixth straight month in September, in what was the largest decline in more than two years. Gold prices ended little changed on Friday after a choppy trading session, but still ended the week with a gain of 0.59%, its third straight weekly increase. December gold futures settled at $1,230.00 on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange. The dollar was broadly lower on Friday with the U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a basket of six major currencies, down 0.36% to 95.38 in late trade. The index has still risen 0.68% so far this month and has advanced around 4% for the year to date, boosted by Federal Reserve rate hikes, with another expected before the years end. Interest rate increases and higher U.S. bond yields are usually bearish for gold, which offers no yield. They also tend to boost the dollar, in which gold is priced. Gold prices have been boosted by weaker stock markets and heightened geopolitical risks, which underpinned safe haven demand for bullion. Recent stock market volatility has been triggered by a combination of concerns over the impact of rising bond yields and fears that trade conflicts are starting to have a serious impact on the global economy. Elsewhere in precious metals trading, silver settled up 0.31% at $14.650 a troy ounce, to end the week up 0.1%. Platinum settled at $833.90, 0.26% higher for the day, trimming the week’s losses to 0.94%. Among base metals, copper ended at $2.782, up 1.29% for the day, for a weekly loss of 0.9%. Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of significant events likely to affect the markets. Monday, October 22 Canada is to release data on wholesale sales. Tuesday, October 23 Bank of England Governor Mark Carney is to speak at an event in Toronto. Wednesday, October 24 The euro zone is to release data on private sector activity. The Bank of Canada is to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish a rate statement, which outlines economic conditions and the factors affecting the monetary policy decision. The U.S. is to report on new home sales. Thursday, October 25 New Zealand is to release data on trade. The Ifo Institute is to report on German business climate. The European Central Bank is to announce its latest monetary policy decision. The announcement is to be followed by a press conference with President Mario Draghi. The U.S. is to release reports on durable goods orders, initial jobless claims and pending home sales. Friday, October 26 The U.S. is to release preliminary data on U.S. third quarter growth as well as a report on consumer sentiment. ECB President Mario Draghi is to speak at an event in Brussels.
