Title: Gold / Silver / Copper Prices - Weekly Outlook: November 12 - 16
Date: 20181111
Content:
Investing.com - This week precious metals traders will be focusing on U.S. inflation data after the Federal Reserve indicated that it is on track to hike interest rates again in December and early next year. Wednesday’s inflation data is expected to show that U.S. consumer prices rose in October. Investors will get another update on the health of consumers from Thursday’s retail sales numbers, which are expected to show an increase from the previous month. Metals traders will also be watching a speech by Fed Chairman Jerome Powell in Dallas on Wednesday, where he is expected to discuss national and global economic issues, as well as appearances by a handful of other Fed speakers, including Vice Chair Randal Quarles. Gold prices fell on Friday, pressured lower by the firmer dollar which has been boosted by expectations for higher U.S. interest rates. December gold futures skidded 1.3% or $15.90 to settle at $1,210.30 on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, extending the week’s losses to 1.99%. The dollar rose against a basket of the other major currencies on Friday, a day after the Fed signaled that it intends to stick to plans to tighten monetary policy, with the U.S. economy looking strong on almost every front. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a basket of six major currencies, was up 0.2% to 96.74 in late trade, not far from the 16-month highs of 96.98 reached on October 31. A stronger dollar can make dollar denominated assets, like gold, more expensive to potential buyers holding other currencies. Interest rate increases and higher U.S. bond yields are usually bearish for gold, which offers no yield. They also tend to boost the dollar, in which gold is priced. Elsewhere in precious metals trading, silver settled down 2.74% at $14.130 a troy ounce, to end the week with a loss of 4.11%. Platinum settled at $855.60, 1.69% lower for the day, for a weekly loss of 1.89%. Among base metals, copper ended at $2.679, down 2.12% for the day, ending the week down 4.14%. Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of significant events likely to affect the markets. Monday, November 12 Japan is to release data on producer prices and a preliminary report on machine tool orders. San Francisco Fed President Mary Daly is to speak at an event in Idaho. Tuesday, November 13 Australia is to publish data on business confidence. The UK is to release its latest employment report. The ZEW Institute is to report on German economic sentiment. Fed Governor Lael Brainard is to speak at an event in Philadelphia. Wednesday, November 14 Japan is to release preliminary data on third quarter growth. China is to publish figures for fixed asset investment and industrial production. The euro zone and Germany are to release preliminary data on third quarter growth. The U.S. is to release data on consumer price inflation. Fed Governor Randal Quarles is to speak in Washington. Later in the day Fed Chairman Jerome Powell is to speak along with Dallas Fed President Robert Kaplan in Dallas. Thursday, November 15 Australia is to publish its latest jobs report. The UK is to report retail sales figures. The U.S. is to release data on retail sales along with data on manufacturing activity in the New York and Philadelphia regions and the weekly report on initial jobless claims. Fed Governor Randal Quarles is to speak in Washington. Fed Chairman Jerome Powell is to speak in Dallas. Friday, November 16 European Central Bank President Mario Draghi is to speak at an event in Frankfurt. Canada is to round up the week with data on manufacturing sales and foreign securities purchases.
