Title: Gold / Silver / Copper Prices - Weekly Outlook: June 25 - 29
Date: 20180624
Content:
Investing.com - Gold looks likely to remain vulnerable amid worries over higher U.S. interest rates boosting Treasury yields, after the yellow metal registered a second weekly decline last week, ending close to its lowest levels since December. Gold futures for August delivery tacked on 60 cents to settle at $1,271.10 on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange late Friday. For the week, prices were down 0.56%. Its close on Thursday at $1,267.20 was the lowest since December. Prices of the precious metal have been pressured lower against a backdrop of rising U.S. interest rates and a stronger dollar. Expectations for higher rates tend to be bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with yield-bearing assets when rates rise, while a stronger U.S. currency makes gold and other dollar-denominated commodities more expensive for foreign investors. The precious metal has largely shrugged off concerns over a potential trade war between the U.S. and China that normally would bolster safe haven demand for gold. U.S. inflation data will be in focus this week with the Federal Reserve having already flagged four interest rate hikes this year. The Fed’s preferred inflation measure; the core PCE price index is due on Friday. The third reading on first quarter U.S. GDP is due the day before and there will also be data on durable goods orders and consumer sentiment. Elsewhere in precious metals trading, silver futures settled up 0.79% at $16.45 a troy ounce, to end the week almost unchanged. Platinum settled at $878.70, up 1.7%, bringing the week’s losses to 1.07%. Among base metals, copper for May delivery was slightly higher at $3.033 in late trade for a weekly decline of 3.44%. Copper prices were pressured as trade tensions between the U.S. and China continued to escalate, fueling fears that protectionist trade policies will slow the global economy and weaken demand. Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of significant events likely to affect the markets. Monday, June 25 The Ifo Institute is to report on German business climate. Tuesday, June 26 The U.S. is to release data on consumer confidence. Atlanta Fed President Raphael Bostic is due to speak at an event in Alabama. Wednesday, June 27 New Zealand is to publish data on trade and a report on business confidence. Bank of England Governor Mark Carney is to hold a press conference about the latest financial stability report in London. The U.S. is to release data on durable goods orders. Fed Governor Randal Quarles is to speak at an event in Idaho. Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz is to speak. Thursday, June 28 The Reserve Bank of New Zealand is to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish a rate statement which outlines economic conditions and the factors affecting the monetary policy decision. In the euro zone, Germany is to release preliminary data on inflation. European Union leaders are to attend the first day of an economic summit in Brussels. The U.S. is to release revised data on first quarter growth as well as the weekly report on jobless claims. Atlanta Fed President Raphael Bostic is to speak in Atlanta. Friday, June 29 The UK is to produce revised data on first quarter growth as well as figures on the current account and net lending. The euro zone is to release a preliminary estimate of consumer price inflation. EU leaders are to attend the second day of an economic summit in Brussels. Canada is to release its monthly report on economic growth as well as data on raw material price inflation. The Bank of Canada is to publish its business outlook survey. The U.S. is to round up the week with data on personal spending and the Fed’s preferred inflation measure, the core PCE price index, along with data on business activity in the Chicago region and revised data on consumer sentiment.
