Title: Gold / Silver / Copper Prices - Weekly Outlook: April 30 - May 4
Date: 20180429
Content:
Investing.com - Concerns over rising U.S. Treasury yields look set to remain in focus for precious metals traders next week after gold prices managed a slight gain on Friday but still ended the week with a drop of almost 1%. The U.S. nonfarm payrolls report for April, set to be released next Friday, and the outcome of the Federal Reserve’s two-day policy meeting on Wednesday, which will help determine the direction of the dollar, will also be in focus. The Fed is unlikely to raise interest rates after a hike in March, but the central bank’s statement will be closely watched amid speculation over whether it will raise rates four times this year, rather than the three signaled by policymakers. Gold futures for June delivery settled up $6.50 or 0.49% at $1,324.40 on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange. For the week, prices were down 0.92%, for a second consecutive weekly decline. Gold clawed higher after data on Friday showed that the U.S. economy slowed in the first quarter, but this was offset by an increase in wage growth. The dollar eased from three-and-a-half month highs against a currency basket following the report, with the U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a basket of six major currencies, dipping 0.09% to 91.31 in late trade. The index still ended the week up 1.37%, its largest weekly percentage gain since early February. The dollar was boosted after the yield on 10-year U.S. Treasury notes rose above 3% for the first time since 2014 last week, amid rising inflation expectations. A stronger U.S. currency makes dollar denominated gold more expensive for overseas buyers, while higher Treasury yields tend to make gold, which does not pay interest, less attractive to yield seeking investors. Elsewhere in precious metals trading, silver futures settled down 0.13% at $16.47 a troy ounce, for a weekly decline of 3.95%. Platinum futures settled at $916.80, up 0.74% for the day, for a weekly loss of 1.36%. Among base metals, copper fell 1.99% to $3.051 in late trade for a weekly drop of 2.56%. Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of significant events likely to affect the markets. Monday, April 30 Financial markets in Shanghai and Japan will be closed for holidays. China is to publish PMI data on manufacturing and service sector growth. In the euro zone, Germany is to release preliminary inflation data along with retail sales figures. The U.S. is to publish data on personal income and spending, which includes the personal consumption expenditures inflation data, the Fed's preferred metric for inflation, as well as reports on manufacturing activity in the Chicago region and pending home sales. Tuesday, May 1 Financial markets in China, Germany, Italy and France will be closed for holidays. The Reserve Bank of Australia is to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish a rate statement which outlines economic conditions and the factors affecting the monetary policy decision. The UK is to release data on manufacturing sector activity. Canada is to publish data on economic growth. In the U.S., the Institute for Supply Management is to publish its manufacturing index. Wednesday, May 2 New Zealand is to publish its employment report for the first quarter. China is to publish its Caixin manufacturing index. The UK is to release data on construction sector activity. The euro zone is to release preliminary data on first quarter economic growth. The U.S. is to release the ADP nonfarm payrolls report. The Fed is to announce its latest monetary policy decision and publish its rate statement. Thursday, May 3 Financial markets in Japan will be closed for a holiday. Australia is to release data on trade and building approvals. The UK is to produce data on service sector activity. The euro zone is to release a preliminary inflation estimate. Canada is to release trade data. The U.S. is to publish data on labor costs and productivity as well as the weekly report on jobless claims, while the ISM is to publish its non-manufacturing index. Friday, May 4 Financial markets in Japan will be closed for a holiday. The RBA is to publish its monetary policy statement. China is to publish its Caixin services index. The U.S. is to round up the week with the nonfarm payrolls report for April.
