Title: Crude Oil Prices Settle Lower Ahead of Inventory Data
Date: 20180227
Content:
Investing.com – Crude oil prices settled sharply lower after the International Energy Agency (IEA) suggested that the fast pace of US output may continue beyond 2018. On the New York Mercantile Exchange crude futures for March delivery lost 1.4% $63.01 to settle at $63.91 a barrel, while on London's Intercontinental Exchange, Brent fell 77 cents to trade at $66.52 a barrel. "U.S. shale growth is very strong, the pace is very strong ... The United States will become the No.1 oil producer sometime very soon," IEA Director Fatih Birol told Reuters. The comments renewed investor fears that rising US output may weigh on major oil producers’ efforts to rid the market of excess supply, and comes a day after Saudi Arabian oil minister Khalid al-Falih reaffirmed the country’s commitment to rebalance the market. The oil cartel together with Russia agreed in November to extend the 1.8 million bpd output cuts through 2018, to rid the market of excess supplies. Also furthering negative sentiment on oil prices were expectations that the Energy Information Administration’s weekly report will show a build in domestic supplies amid reduced refinery activity. This time of the year traditionally sees refinery activity slow, this in turn, lowers demand for crude while raising the prospect of a build in supplies. Crude's struggle to pare losses was exacerbated by a sharp upswing in the dollar which followed Fed chair Jerome Powell's upbeat comments on inflation and economic growth raising the prospect of four rate hikes in 2018. Dollar-denominated assets such as oil are sensitive to moves in the dollar – a rise in the dollar tends to make oil more expensive for holders of foreign currency and thus, reduces demand. The American Petroleum Institute weekly inventory report is slated for Tuesday after US markets close, while the EIA issues its supply totals Wednesday at 10:30 a.m. ET expected to show crude supplies rose by 2.422 million barrels.
