Title: Gold / Silver / Copper Prices - Weekly Outlook: April 2 - 6
Date: 20180401
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices will remain vulnerable to any further gains in the dollar in the coming week after ending the week at more than one-week lows on Thursday, in a holiday-shortened week, as a stronger greenback weighed. Gold futures for April delivery settled at $1,325.00 on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange late Thursday, to end the week down 1.73%. Many financial markets were closed on Friday for a holiday. The precious metal had rallied at the start of the week, peaking at a five-week high of $1,356.80 on Wednesday before turning sharply lower as safe haven demand was hit by easing trade tensions and hopes for a diplomatic breakthrough with North Korea over its nuclear program. Gold was also pressured lower by the stronger dollar. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, was little changed at 89.75 late Thursday but ended the week up 0.88%. Gold is denominated in the U.S. currency and becomes less affordable for holders of other currencies when the dollar rises. The direction of the gold market this week looks likely to be determined by the dollar and by trade war concerns. Traders will be looking ahead to Friday’s U.S. jobs report for indications on the future direction of U.S. monetary policy after the Federal Reserve hiked rates for the first time this year two weeks ago and stuck to its projection for three rate hikes this year. Indications that the Fed is likely to stick to its plan for gradual interest rates increases have supported gold, which struggles to compete with yield-bearing assets when interest rates rise. Elsewhere in precious metals trading, silver was up 0.54% to $16.34 a troy ounce and recorded a 1.66% weekly decline. Platinum settled at $936.60, down 0.45% for the day and was down 2.03% for the week. Among base metals, copper for May delivery was up 0.7% at $3.023 in late trade for a weekly gain of 1.21%, rebounding from Monday’s three-month lows of $2.938. Worries over recent weak economic data out of China, the world’s largest copper consumer, and concerns over trade tensions had pressured prices to their weakest levels since December after they hit a nearly four-year high late last year. Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of the main economic events likely to affect the markets. Monday, April 2 Markets in Australia, New Zealand and Western Europe will be closed for the Easter Holiday. China is to release data on the Caixin manufacturing index. In the U.S., the Institute of Supply Management is to publish its manufacturing index. Tuesday, April 3 New Zealand is to release data on business confidence. The Reserve Bank of Australia is to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish a rate statement which outlines economic conditions and the factors affecting the monetary policy decision. In the euro zone, Germany is to release data on retail sales. The UK is to release data on manufacturing activity. Wednesday, April 4 Australia is to release data on retail sales and building approvals. China is to publish its Caixin service sector index. The UK is to release data on construction activity. The euro zone is to publish preliminary inflation data. The U.S. is to release the ADP nonfarm payrolls report and later in the day, the ISM is to publish its non-manufacturing index. Thursday, April 5 Financial markets in China will be closed for a holiday. Australia is to produce data on the trade balance. The UK is to release data on service sector activity. Canada is to publish data on the trade balance. The U.S. is to release the weekly report on jobless claims. Friday, April 6 Financial markets in China will be closed for a holiday. Canada is to publish its latest employment report. The U.S. is to round up the week with the nonfarm payrolls report for March.
