Title: Top 5 Things to Know in The Market on Wednesday
Date: 20181114
Content:
Investing.com - Here are the top five things you need to know in financial markets on Wednesday, November 14: 1. Global Growth Woes Knock Stocks Lower Global stock markets were on the backfoot, as appetite for riskier assets weakened amid mounting concerns over a slowdown in global economic growth. Fears over the health of the global economy intensified after data showed that Germany’s economy contracted in the third quarter for the first time since 2015. The disappointing data came after a report overnight showing that Japan’s economy shrank in the three months to September, highlighting fears over the impact of trade wars on the outlook for global growth. Investors were further spooked by increasing political uncertainty in Europe. British Prime Minister Theresa May will try to convince her deeply divided cabinet to accept a draft European Union divorce deal at a meeting at 1400GMT (9:00AM ET). That news comes alongside Italy's decision to defy the European Commission by sticking to plans for a high deficit in next year's draft budget. In Asia, markets in the region ended deep in negative territory, led by losses in China. The downbeat sentiment carried over to Europe, where the continent's major bourses fell in mid-morning trade, with nearly all sectors in the red. On Wall Street, the blue-chip Dow futures were down 25 points, or about 0.1%, by 5:35AM ET (1035GMT), the S&P 500 futures shed 3 points, or around 0.1%, while the tech-heavy Nasdaq 100 futures indicated a drop of 27 points, or roughly 0.4%. 2. Oil Attempts to Find Footing After Bloodbath Oil prices attempted to find their footing after suffering their biggest one-day percentage decline in more than three years in the last session, following reports that OPEC and its partners are discussing a proposal to cut oil output by up to 1.4 million barrels per day (bpd) for 2019. U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude futures were up 11 cents, or roughly 0.2%, at $55.80 a barrel. It tumbled 7% on Tuesday to settle at a one-year low of $54.75, retreating for the 12th straight session. International Brent crude oil futures rose 44 cents, or 0.7%, to $65.94 per barrel, following a plunge of more than 6% a day earlier. Crude oil has lost over a quarter of its value since early October in what has become one of the biggest declines since a price collapse in 2014, with surging supply and the specter of faltering demand scaring off investors. 3. Macy's Reports Earnings Macy’s (NYSE:M) is one of the last notable names slated to report third-quarter results before U.S. markets open, as the earnings season continues to wind down. The retailer is expected to report earnings of 14 cents per share on revenue of $5.4 billion, according to estimates. Investors will be closely watching the results for a view of general consumer confidence in the economy. Consumer spending accounts for as much as 70% of U.S. economic growth. Other headliners expected out today include S&P 500 members NetApp (NASDAQ:NTAP) and Cisco (NASDAQ:CSCO), both due after the bell. Canada Goose (NYSE:GOOS) and  Canopy Growth  (NYSE:CGC) are also set to report today. 4. Inflation Data Ahead On the data front, investors will get key inflation data in the morning with the October report on consumer prices set for release at 8:30AM ET (1330GMT). Consumer prices are expected to have risen 0.3% last month and 2.5% over the prior year, according to estimates. Excluding the cost of food and fuel, core inflation is projected to climb 2.2% on a year-over-year basis. Rising inflation would be a catalyst to push the Fed toward raising interest rates at a faster pace than currently expected. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a basket of six major currencies, was little changed at 97.15. The index hit a 16-month high of 97.53 on Monday. In the bond market, U.S. Treasury prices edged higher, pushing yields lower across the curve, with the benchmark 10-year yield falling to 3.14%. 5. Fed Chair Powell Speaks Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell is due to speak, along with Dallas Fed President Robert Kaplan, about economic issues at an event hosted by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas at 6:00PM ET (2300GMT). Markets will pay close attention to his remarks, as they watch for further clues on interest rates. The Fed left borrowing costs on hold earlier this month, but delivered an upbeat assessment of the economy, reaffirming expectations for a December rate hike. Investors will also tune in to Fed Governor Randal Quarles’s semi-annual testimony to Congress on banking supervision and regulation. He is due to appear before the House Financial Services Committee at 10AM ET (1500GMT). 
