Title: Oil Prices Spike On Storm Fears, Iran Sanctions
Date: 20180911
Content:
Investing.com – An overnight jump in oil prices caused by fears of devastation from a giant hurricane headed for the east coast of the United States set the stage for early morning trade in Asia Wednesday. Also adding to the spike was a sharp decrease in crude inventories in the U.S. and a new forecast that U.S. production of crude next year could grow at a slower pace than anticipated. Crude Oil WTI Futures for October delivery were up 0.81% to $69.81 at 9:30PM ET (01:30 GMT), that\'s more than $2 higher than a day earlier. WTI crude was trading at $67.56 on Tuesday morning. Brent Oil Futures, traded In London, were down 0.09% to $79.31 in early morning trade in Asia, up from $77.50. The potential impact of Hurricane Florence, that is moving towards the east coast of the United States, added to market concerns about U.S. sanctions on Iran to power an overnight spike in oil prices that was the largest spike since June. Reports suggest Iranian oil exports are beginning to take a hit as buyers look for alternative supplies in the face of U.S. sanctions. Hurricane Florence, a large Category 4 storm, is approaching North Carolina and South Carolina. It is expected to reach the continental U.S. this week. People have been buying gasoline ahead of the storm and the surge in demand led to a spike in demand for refined products and crude. Crude inventories in the U.S. fell by 8.6 million barrels last week, a much bigger drop than the forecasted decrease of 805,000 barrels, according to the American Petroleum Institute. The U.S. Energy Information Administration on Tuesday released a forecast for 2019 in which it says production should increase by 840,000 barrels per day to 11.5 million bpd. That\'s lower than an earlier forecast of a 1.02 million bpd increase. Demand Is also expected to rise by 250,000 bpd, less than an earlier projected demand of 290,000 bpd. As part of an effort to keep oil prices from spiking, U.S. energy officials have been meeting with their counterparts from Saudi Arabia and Russia this week. The three country's are the largest oil producers in the world. The U.S. wants to ensure Saudi Arabia and Russia keep supplies up to limit price rises. On Tuesday, Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak toll TASS news agency that Russia and a group of Middle East members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) may sign a new long-term cooperation deal in December. Some OPE and non-OPEC producers have been capping crude supplies since agreeing to keep markets tight in January 2017.
