Title: Gold / Silver / Copper Prices - Weekly Outlook: August 6 - 10
Date: 20180805
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices look likely to remain vulnerable to the stronger dollar this week, as expectations for additional U.S. interest rate hikes this year underpin demand for the greenback. There aren’t many major events coming up on the economic calendar, but Friday will see an update on consumer prices for July, which will be the week’s most closely watched U.S. data release. Gold prices edged higher on Friday after data showing that U.S. job growth slowed more than expected in July, but labor market conditions continued to tighten. Gold futures for December delivery settled up 0.15% at $1,221.9 on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange. The precious metal still ended the week down 0.69%, its fourth consecutive weekly loss. Despite the slowdown in jobs growth the employment report supported expectations for two more rate hikes from the Federal Reserve this year. The Fed kept interest rates on hold on Wednesday but said the U.S. economy was strong, indicating that it is on track to deliver expected rate hikes in September and December. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a basket of six major currencies, was at 95.03 late Friday, little changed for the day. The index gained 0.53% for the week. Expectations for higher rates tend to be bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with yield-bearing assets when rates rise, while a stronger U.S. currency makes gold and other dollar-denominated commodities more expensive for foreign investors. Gold prices are down around 7% so far this year, pressured lower by the stronger dollar and rising interest rates. Investors have also shunned the precious metal despite an escalation in global trade tensions, indicating that gold may be losing its safe haven status. Elsewhere in precious metals trading, silver settled up 0.26% at $15.425 a troy ounce, for a weekly loss of 0.19%. Platinum settled at $832.50, 0.52% higher for the day, to end the week little changed. Among base metals, copper ended at $2.752, up 0.53% for the day, paring its weekly loss to 1.26%. Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of significant events likely to affect the markets. Monday, August 6 Financial markets in Canada will be closed for a holiday. Tuesday, August 7 The Reserve Bank of Australia is to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish its rate statement, which outlines economic conditions and the factors affecting the monetary policy decision. Wednesday, August 8 New Zealand is to release data on inflation expectations. China is to publish its latest trade figures. Thursday, August 9 The Reserve Bank New Zealand is to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish its rate statement. The bank will also hold a press conference to discuss the policy decision. China is to publish data on inflation. Canada is to release industry data on new house price inflation. The U.S. is to produce reports on producer price inflation and the weekly report on jobless claims. Friday, August 10 Japan is to release preliminary data on second quarter growth The UK is to publish preliminary data on monthly GDP growth, as well as reports on manufacturing production, business investment and trade. Canada is to produce its jobs report for July. The U.S. is to round up the week with a report on consumer price inflation.
