Title: Oil Steady Near $68 Amid Bets Trump Will Exit Iran Accord
Date: 20180504
Content:
(Bloomberg) -- Oil traded near $68 a barrel amid growing expectations that U.S. President Donald Trump will withdraw from a nuclear accord with Iran, threatening crude exports from OPEC’s third-largest producer. Futures in New York were little changed this week. Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif accused the U.S. of “bullying” businesses into putting off investments in the Middle East nation, days before Trump decides whether to pull out from the accord. A withdrawal would reintroduce sanctions on the Islamic Republic. “This will be the main issue preoccupying the oil market, with fundamental factors such as stock levels and production data taking a back seat until this has been resolved,” said Carsten Fritsch, an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. Oil-price increases in recent weeks have been driven by speculation over the fate of the nuclear deal, as well as rising geopolitical tensions in other parts of the Middle East. Crude has also been bolstered by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies including Russia persisting with output curbs to clear a global glut. All that has meant prices are up more than 10 percent this year even though U.S. production is booming. West Texas Intermediate crude for June delivery was down 17 cents at $68.26 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange at 10:29 a.m. in London, after rising 0.7 percent on Thursday. Total volume traded was about 17 percent below the 100-day average. Brent crude for July settlement was 21 cents lower at $73.41 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The global benchmark crude was at a $5.26 premium to July WTI. Iran’s Criticism Yuan-denominated futures for September delivery were little changed at 446.9 yuan per barrel in afternoon trading on the Shanghai International Energy Exchange. The contract is headed for a 0.6 percent increase this week. Iran intensified its criticism of Trump ahead of a May 12 deadline he’s set for making a decision on the accord, stating that there’s “only one way forward and it’s U.S. compliance, not appeasement.” Citing the Islamic Republic’s missile program and its role in Middle East conflicts, the U.S. president has ridiculed the nuclear agreement reached under his predecessor as “flawed” and a “disaster.” Other oil-market news: 
