Title: Gold futures shoot higher after weak U.S. retail sales data
Date: 20151014
Content:
Investing.com - Gold futures jumped to a three-month high on Wednesday, after data showed retail sales in the U.S. rose less than expected in September, dampening optimism over the strength of the economy and dimming the case for higher interest rates. Gold for December delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange hit an intraday peak of $1,176.00 a troy ounce, the highest level since June 30, before trading at $1,173.20 during U.S. morning hours, up $7.80, or 0.67%. A day earlier, gold inched up 90 cents, or 0.08%. The U.S. Commerce Department said that retail sales increased by 0.1% last month, missing expectations for a gain of 0.2%. Retail sales for August were revised down to a flat reading from a previously reported increase of 0.2%. Rising retail sales over time correlate with stronger economic growth, while weaker sales signal a declining economy. Core retail sales, which exclude automobile sales, declined 0.3% in September, worse than forecasts for a fall of 0.1%. Core sales in August decreased 0.1%, whose figure was revised from a previously reported gain of 0.1%. Core sales correspond most closely with the consumer spending component of the government's gross domestic product report. Consumer spending accounts for as much as 70% of U.S. economic growth. At the same time, the Commerce Department said that producer prices declined by a seasonally adjusted 0.5% last month, worse than forecasts for a drop of 0.2% and after holding flat in August. The core producer price index eased down by a seasonally adjusted 0.3% in September, disappointing forecasts for a gain of 0.1% and following a rise of 0.3% a month earlier. The disappointing data fanned hopes that Fed officials could delay raising interest rates until the first half of 2016. A delay in raising interest rates would be seen as bullish for gold, as it decreases the relative cost of holding on to the metal, which doesn't offer investors any similar guaranteed payout. The timing of a Fed rate hike has been a constant source of debate in the markets in recent months. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, declined 0.5% to 94.27 in wake of the dismal data, a level not seen since September 18. Elsewhere in metals trading, copper for December delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange tacked on 1.4 cents, or 0.59%, to hit $2.402 a pound during morning hours in New York. Government data released earlier showed that Chinese producer prices fell 5.9% in September, the 43rd straight monthly decline and matching the worst reading since October 2009. Consumer prices rose 1.6% last month, below expectations for 1.8% and down from 2.0% in August. The soft inflation data added to speculation policymakers in Beijing will have to introduce further stimulus measures to boost growth. Trade data on Tuesday revealed that China's imports shrank far more than expected in September, falling for the 11th straight month. A slowdown in domestic demand indicated a recovery in the broader economy remains fragile and may need further government stimulus. The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for almost 40% of world consumption last year. 
