Title: Gold prices gain in Asia with Fed's Yellen at the plate again
Date: 20151111
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices gained in Asia with continued focus on the Federal Reserve and prospects for a rate hike at the end of the year. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for December delivery traded up 0.29% to $1,088.00 a troy ounce. Silver for December delivery rose 0.47% to $14.355 a troy ounce. Copper for December delivery gained 0.10% to $2.218 a pound. Overnight, gold futures inched down on Wednesday to remain near three-month lows, on a quiet day of trading due to the Veterans' Day holiday. Last Friday, gold futures crashed by more than 1.5% on the session after a robust October U.S. jobs report provided the hawks on the Federal Reserve with ammunition for a December rate hike. The Fed's benchmark Federal Funds Rate has remained at its current level between zero and 0.25% since 2009. Nearly a decade has elapsed since the Federal Open Market Committee last raised short-term interest rates. Following the optimistic jobs data last week, the CME Group's (O:O:CME) Fed watch increased the probability of a December rate hike above 70%. On Thursday, a host of FOMC members including Fed chair Janet Yellen are slated to make appearances at the Federal Reserve's two-day conference on Monetary Policy Implementation and Transmission in the Post-Crisis period. Yellen is scheduled to make the opening remarks on Thursday morning, while Fed chair Stanley Fischer is scheduled to deliver a speech on the transmission of exchange rates to output and inflation on Thursday evening. Investors also await the release of data on U.S. retail sales, producer prices and consumer sentiment on Friday for further indications on whether the FOMC will approve a quarter-point rate hike when it meets next on Dec. 15-16. In recent months, Yellen has suggested that the Fed will employ a data-driven approach as it weighs its decision. A rate hike is viewed as bearish for gold, which is not attached to dividends or interest rates. Gold struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. 
