Title: NYMEX crude dips in Asia as cues awaited on U.S. stocks, China PMI
Date: 20150719
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices trended lower in Asia on Monday with demand cues waited in the week ahead on U.S. stockpiles and manufacturing data from China later this week, with markets shut in Japan today. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in September eased 0.04% to $51.19 a barrel. On the broad macro front, Greek banks are ready to open their branches across the country on Monday after a three-week shutdown, officials said at the weekend, while German Chancellor Angela Merkel called for swift aid talks so Athens could also lift withdrawal limits. The cautious reopening of the banks, and an increase in value added tax on restaurant food and public transport from Monday, are aimed at restoring trust inside and outside Greece after an aid-for-reforms deal last week averted bankruptcy. Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras is trying to turn a corner after he reluctantly agreed to negotiate a third bailout, allowing the European Central Bank to top up bank credit lines but prompting a rebellion in his leftist Syriza party. "Capital controls and restrictions on withdrawals will remain in place but we are entering a new stage which we all hope will be one of normality," the head of Greece's banking association Louka Katseli told Skai television. Last week, U.S. oil futures fell to the lowest level in more than three months on Friday, as ongoing concerns over a glut of crude supplies and a broadly stronger U.S. dollar weighed. Nymex oil prices bounced off the lowest levels of the session after industry research group  Baker Hughes  (NYSE:NYSE:BHI) said late Friday that the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. declined by seven last week to 638, snapping two weeks of gains. Elsewhere, on the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent for September delivery tacked on 18 cents, or 0.32%, to close at $57.10 a barrel after hitting a session low of $56.40, the weakest level since July 8. Iran and six world powers reached a long-awaited nuclear deal earlier in the week that would end sanctions on Tehran in exchange for curbs on the country's disputed nuclear program. Iran reportedly hoards 30 million barrels of oil in its reserves ready for export. However, analysts largely estimate that Iranian crude exports could take several months to ramp up significantly. Global oil production is outpacing demand following a boom in U.S. shale oil production and after a decision by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries last year not to cut production. In the week ahead, market players will focus on U.S. data on home sales and jobless claims for further indications on the strength of the economy and the timing of an interest rate hike. Manufacturing data from China, the euro zone and the U.S. will also be in focus. 
