Title: NYMEX crude weaker in Asia as investors mull supply, production curbs
Date: 20150416
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices dropped in early Asia on Friday with investors noting massive oversupply threats as well as efforts to curb production, making for a mixed outlook.On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for May delivery fell 0.45% to $56.46 a barrel.Overnight, crude oil futures rose modestly on Thursday extending recent gains, following Opec forecasts of a slowdown in U.S. production in the coming months.On the Intercontinental Exchange, Brent crude for June delivery edged up 0.54 or 0.85% to 63.86 a barrel on Thursday.Energy traders are intently focused on supply, as crude storage in the U.S. for the week ending April 10 reached 483.1 million barrels, the highest level in at least 80 years. In its monthly market watch released on Thursday, Opec said U.S. oil supply would increase to 13.65 millions barrels per day through the second quarter before flattening for the remainder of the year.Separately, Opec said Saudi Arabia, its largest producer, increased output for March by 390,000 a day to 10.1 million bpd for the month. The spike in output pushed crude production to a near record-high and the highest by the oil-rich area since September, 2013.The forecasts come on the heels of expectations for declining shale field production in the U.S. Earlier this week, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) forecasted that shale production next month will drop from its current level of 5.02 million barrels in April to 4.98 million bpd in May. Reductions in output in the Bakken formation in North Dakota and Eagle Ford in South Texas will spur the decline, according to the EIA.The U.S. is dangerously close to reaching full storage capacity for crude, a development which could force producers to slow output. In early-April, Saudi oil minister Ali Al-Naimi said his nation would only slash oil production if other producers followed.Geopolitical issues continued to weigh on crude, as Al Qaeda operatives reportedly gained control of a major airport in Yemen. Shiite-led Houthi rebels have battled Sunni Muslims from Saudi Arabia in the area since late March when a Houthi advance forced Yemen president Abed Rabbo Mansour Hadi to flee the country. Al Qaeda also reportedly captured a major seaport and oil terminal in Southern Yemen. 
