Title: Natural gas futures - weekly outlook: March 30 - April 3
Date: 20150329
Content:
Investing.com - U.S. natural gas futures fell sharply on Friday, amid speculation the end of the winter heating season will bring warmer temperatures throughout the U.S. and cut into demand for the fuel. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, natural gas for delivery in May hit an intraday low of $2.616 per million British thermal units, the weakest level since February 9, before closing at $2.639, down 4.9 cents, or 1.82%. Futures were likely to find support at $2.595 per million British thermal units, the low from February 9, and resistance at $2.775, the high from March 26. For the week, the May natural gas contract lost 9.9 cents, or 5.85%, as winter draws to an end. Prices are likely to remain vulnerable in the near-term as the coldest part of the winter has effectively passed and below-normal temperatures in March and April mean less than they do in January and February. Updated weather forecasting models for the lower 48 U.S. states released Friday showed that temperatures will remain near-normal over the next two weeks. Spring usually sees the weakest demand for natural gas in the U.S, as the absence of extreme temperatures curbs demand for heating and air conditioning. The heating season from November through March is the peak demand period for U.S. gas consumption. Approximately 49% of U.S. households use natural gas for heating, according to the Energy Department. On Thursday, natural gas prices lost nearly 2% after government data showed that U.S. natural gas supplies rose for the first time since last April. Natural gas storage in the U.S. increased by 12 billion cubic feet in the week ended March 20, compared to expectations for a gain of 6 billion. Supplies fell by 56 billion in the same week last year, while the five-year average change is a decline of 19 billion cubic feet. Total U.S. natural gas storage stood at 1.479 trillion cubic feet as of last week, 63.6% above year-ago levels and 11.6% below the five-year average for this time of year. Last spring, supplies were 55% below the five-year average, indicating producers have made up for most of last winter’s unusually strong demand. The Energy Information Administration's next storage report slated for release on Thursday, April 2 is expected to show a build of approximately 16 billion cubic feet for the week ending March 27. Supplies fell by 71 billion cubic feet in the same week last year, while the five-year average change is a decline of 22 billion cubic feet. Elsewhere on the Nymex, crude oil for May delivery settled at $48.87 a barrel by close of trade on Friday, up $2.46, or 4.94%, on the week. Meanwhile, heating oil for April delivery shed 0.39% on the week to settle at $1.727 per gallon by close of trade Friday. 
