Title: Gold / Silver / Copper futures - weekly outlook: December 7 - 11
Date: 20151206
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices soared more than $20 to hit a three-week high on Friday, despite data showing the U.S. economy created more jobs than expected in November. The Labor Department reported that the U.S. economy added 211,000 jobs last month, beating expectations for 200,000. The unemployment rate held steady at 5.0%, matching forecasts. The robust data solidified expectations that the Federal Reserve will hike interest rates for the first time since 2006 at its upcoming meeting on December 15-16. Investors widely expect the central bank to raise rates later this month, but anticipate the pace of increases to be gradual, boosting gold. Gold for February delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange jumped $22.90, or 2.16%, on Friday to close the week at $1,084.10 a troy ounce. It earlier rose to a daily peak of $1,088.30, the highest since November 16. Market players also reacted to OPEC's decision on Friday to leave its production ceiling unchanged at a contentious meeting in Vienna. As a result, crude prices are expected to remain stubbornly low amid a glut of oversupply on global energy markets. For the week, prices of the precious metal increased $27.90, or 2.57%, the first weekly gain in seven weeks, as the U.S. dollar came off eight-month highs. Gold prices often move inversely to the U.S. dollar, as the precious metal becomes less expensive for buyers using other currencies. The dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, ended the week down 1.73%, as the euro surged after the latest easing measures announced by the European Central Bank on Thursday fell short of market expectations. The ECB cut the deposit rate to -0.3% and extended the duration of its bond-buying program to at least March 2017, without increasing the amount, disappointing expectations for a more significant move. Also on the Comex, silver futures for March delivery surged 45.1 cents, or 3.2%, on Friday to settle at $14.52 a troy ounce by close of trade, the most since November 9. On the week, silver futures rose 48.3 cents, or 3.42%, snapping a six-week losing streak. Elsewhere in metals trading, copper for March delivery inched up 1.8 cents, or 0.87%, on Friday to settle the week at $2.079 a pound. For the week, copper prices gained 2.2 cents, or 1.17%, In the week ahead, investors will be looking ahead to Friday’s U.S. data on retail sales and inflation for fresh indications on the strength of the economy. Markets will also be watching a raft of Chinese economic data, including a report on the trade balance as well as data on consumer price inflation. Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of these and other significant events likely to affect the markets. Monday, December 7 Bank of England Governor Mark Carney is to testify before the European Parliament Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, in Brussels. Tuesday, December 8 China is to release data on the trade balance. Wednesday, December 9 China is to producer data on both consumer and producer price inflation. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand is to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish its rate statement, which outlines economic conditions and the factors affecting the monetary policy decision. Thursday, December 10 The Swiss National Bank is to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish its monetary policy assessment. The announcement is to be followed by a press conference. Later, the Bank of England is to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish the minutes of its monetary policy meeting. The U.S. is to release the weekly report on initial jobless claims. Friday, December 11 The U.S. is to round up the week with reports on retail sales, producer price inflation and preliminary data on consumer sentiment. 
