Title: NYMEX crude gains in Asia as China prices gain, PBOC supports shares
Date: 20150708
Content:
Investing.com - Crude prices gained in Asia on Thursday, lifted by data showing an increase in China consumer prices and on new support to the country's beleagured share markets. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for August delivery rose 0.90% to $52.12 a barrel. In China, June CPI rose 1.4%, above the 1.3% gain seen, while PPI fell 4.8%, more than the drop of 4.5% expected, indicating an easing in deflationary pressure on the consumer figure, but producer prices are at a four-month low and extend the run of negative growth to a record 40 months, highlighting the problems of widespread industrial overcapacity. Earlier, the People's Bank of China on Thursday provided liquidity to China Securities Finance Corp via re-lending at its request, state-run Xinhua News Agency reported. The PBOC will also let the CSFC issue financial bonds, including short-term commercial paper in the interbank market, and pledged to continue to provide liquidity support to CSFC via various channels. The Shanghai Composite index gained 2.35% in morning trade. China is the world's top crude importer. Overnight, WTI crude futures fell considerably on Wednesday extending one of the sharpest three-day declines over the last five years, as energy traders digested a modest U.S. supply build last week and slight progress in Iranian Nuclear negotiations. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude for August delivery traded between $55.88 a barrel and $57.75a barrel during a choppy day of trading Wednesday. In U.S. morning trading, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) said U.S. crude inventories increased by 400,000 barrels for the week ending on July 3, above expectations for a 500,000 draw. U.S. crude stockpiles are now at 465.8 million barrels, remaining near levels not seen for this time of year in at least the last 80 years. Any supply builds are viewed as bearish for crude amid a glut of oversupply in global markets over the last eight months. Elsewhere, Iran reportedly proposed "constructive solutions," according to the Iranian Students News Agency, in an effort to reach a final nuclear agreement with a group of six major western powers by Friday's deadline. During tense negotiations over the last several days in Austria, the two sides have encountered sticking points in terms of a United Nations arms embargo against Iran, UN missile sanctions and the rapidity of sanction easing. A nuclear deal is viewed as bearish for crude, as Iran reportedly hoards 30 million barrels of crude in its reserves ready for export. An outflow of Iranian oil could depress crude prices in a global market already oversaturated by a glut of oversupply. It is widely believed that Iran will ramp up exports if a plethora of severe economic sanctions are lifted by western powers. 
