Title: Gold nears $1,200, as soft inflation adds support for delayed rate hike
Date: 20151015
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold futures moved to fresh three month highs on Thursday, as relatively soft U.S. inflation data appeased dovish sentiments for delaying an interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve beyond the end of the year. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for December delivery traded in a broad range between $1,174.50 and $1,191.40 an ounce before settling at $1,187.20, up 7.50 or 0.64% on the day. Gold posted its fifth straight winning session and closed higher for the ninth time in the last 10 trading days. At one point, the precious metal reached its highest level since late-June. Over the last month of trading, gold has gained nearly 7% in value. Gold likely gained support at $1,143.00, the low from Oct. 7 and was met with resistance at $1,204.00, the high from June 1. On Thursday morning, the U.S. Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) said its Consumer Price Index fell by 0.2% for the month of September, in line with consensus estimates. A month earlier, the reading fell by 0.1% in August. On a year-over-year basis, the headline reading is identical to its level 12 months ago. There were signals throughout the report of weakness in the energy sector, restraining inflationary pressures overall. For the month, energy prices declined by 4.7%, while gasoline prices plummeted by 9.0% in September. The dip in energy prices pulled down transportation costs, which fell by 2.3% on the month. The effects were reflected in the modest gains in Core CPI Inflation, which strips out food and energy prices. On a monthly basis, Core CPI  rose by 0.2% from its level in August, while increasing 1.9% over the last year. Still, Core PCE Inflation, the Fed's preferred gauge for long-term inflation remains under 1.5%. The Fed would like to see long-term inflation move toward its targeted goal 2% before it raises its benchmark Federal Funds Rate. Last month at an appearance at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst, Fed chair Janet Yellen indicated that the FOMC could raise short-term interest rates this year barring unforeseen developments over the next several weeks. Yellen also noted that the inflation shortfall is likely to be transitory, as one-off factors such as lower energy prices and weaker imports due to a stronger dollar abate. Yellen added that inflation should reach the Fed's 2% target when the labor market returns to full employment. Long-term inflation has remained under the Fed's goal for every month over the last three years. The FOMC is expected to take a "data-driven approach," in determining whether it should wait until 2016 for lift-off. A rate hike is viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, rose more than 0.3% to an intraday high of 94.63. Earlier in the session it fell to a fresh monthly low at 93.83. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Silver for December delivery gained 0.038 or 0.24% to 16.155 an ounce. Copper for December delivery rose 0.007 or 0.29% to 2.423 a pound.
