Title: Gold prices gain in early Asia with trade thing on Lunar New Year
Date: 20150217
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices gained in early Asia on Wednesday in holiday-thinned regional trade and as investors kept a wary eye on Greece.On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold futures for April delivery rose 0.10% to trade at $1,209.30 a troy ounce.Elsewhere on the Comex, silver futures for March delivery gained 0.09% to trade at $16.480 a troy ounce.Meanwhile, copper for March delivery fell 0.24% to trade at $2.581 a pound.Trading volume in the copper market was expected to drop in the coming days as investors in China are off for the Lunar New Year holiday.The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for almost 40% of world consumption last year.Wednesday also marks the start of the Chinese New Year holidays. Markets in mainland China are already closed until Feb 25. Markets in Hong Kong will observe a shortened session today before holidays for the next two days.Elsewhere in Asia, many regional markets will be closed from Thursday, and are due to re-open Feb. 23, although trading desks are due to be lightly staffed.Overnight, gold remained in negative territory on Tuesday, despite data showing that the New York Federal Reserve’s index of manufacturing conditions improved at a weaker rate than expected in February.The Fed Bank of New York said that its general business conditions index decreased to 7.8 this month from a reading of 10.0 in January. Analysts had expected the index to dip to 8.5 in February.Gold prices remained vulnerable amid ongoing expectations for the Federal Reserve to start raising U.S. interest rates as early as June.Investors will be focusing on Wednesday’s minutes of the latest Fed meeting for further indications on when the central bank may start to hike interest rates. Though the U.S. Federal government shut Tuesday in Washington because of a snow storm. Expectations of higher borrowing rates going forward is considered bearish for gold, as the precious metal struggles to compete with yield-bearing assets when rates are on the rise.Talks between Greece and its euro zone partners on the country’s debt crisis broke down late Monday after Athens rejected a proposal to extend its bailout.Greece’s current €240 billion bailout is due to expire at the end of the month and the new Greek government does not want it extended. Athens rejected a proposed six-month extension of the bailout on Monday, calling it "unacceptable".Athens has until Friday to request an extension otherwise its bailout will expire on February 28 and the country will run out of money.The clash between Greece and its creditors has sparked fears that it could trigger the country’s exit from the euro zone.
