Title: Gold surges to cap volatile week, as traders look ahead to key econ data
Date: 20150410
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold futures soared more than $10 an ounce on Friday to cap a volatile week of trading, as metal investors looked ahead to the release of a host of key U.S. economic indicators next week. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold futures for June delivery rose 0.93% or 11.10 an ounce to $1,204.60 in U.S. afternoon trading. Gold traded at a daily-low of 1,192.90 in European morning trading, before surging to a high of 1,209.10 in the U.S. morning trading session. Gold futures fell back slightly in the afternoon before the close. At the start of the week gold futures rallied, soaring more than $20 an ounce on Monday to $1,235.50, following a disappointing U.S. jobs report last week. After reaching a seven-week high early this week, gold prices had been on a downward trend while encountering a three-day slump. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) said on Friday that U.S. import prices fell 0.3% in March, marking the eighth consecutive monthly decline. More critically, prices for domestic imports fell 10.5% on a year-over-year basis from March, 2014, representing the steepest decline since 2009. A stronger dollar is considered to be a key factor in pulling down import prices. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, ticked upward 0.43% on Friday to 99.68. The index is approximately 20% higher since last year at this time. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers amid a stronger dollar. The monthly report also serves as an indicator of inflationary trends in internationally traded products. Prices for imports appear to be devoid of inflationary pressures, which could possibly enhance dovish sentiments among policymakers at the Federal Reserve. As the Fed considers the timing of a potential interest rate hike, Fed chair Janet Yellen has indicated that inflation must move toward its target of 2% before it begins to raise rates. Next week, investors will await the release of the BLS' Consumer Price Index for the month of February on Friday. In January, the CPI-U for All Urban Consumers fell by 0.7% on a seasonally-adjusted basis and 0.1% over the last year, marking the first 12-month negative change since October, 2009. The CPI is the most widely used monthly indicator of inflation. Other key reports on U.S manufacturing and industrial production will be released early next week. The considerable spike in gold prices on Friday could be viewed as an indication that investors are betting on a delayed interest-rate hike. Gold struggles to compete with high yield bearing assets in periods of rising interest rates. Elsewhere, silver futures for May delivery increased 0.199 or 1.31% to 16.38 an ounce. Copper for May delivery rose 0.04 or 0.2% to 2.735 a pound.   
