Title: Natural gas moves away from 6-week lows with storage report in focus
Date: 20151209
Content:
Investing.com - U.S. natural gas prices bounced off the prior session's six-week lows on Wednesday, as market participants looked ahead to fresh weekly information on U.S. gas inventories to gauge the strength of demand for the fuel. The U.S. Energy Information Administration's next storage report due on Thursday is expected to show a withdrawal of approximately 60 billion cubic feet for the week ending December 4. That compared with a drawdown of 53 billion cubic feet in the prior week, 51 billion cubic feet in the same week last year, while the five-year average change for the week is a decline of 79 billion cubic feet. Total natural gas in storage stood at 3.956 trillion cubic feet as of last week, 13.7% higher than levels at this time a year ago and 6.2% above the five-year average for this time of year. Last spring, supplies were 55% below the five-year average, indicating producers have more than made up for all of last winter’s unusually strong demand. Inventories of the gas are typically built up during the warm summer months and then drawn down in the winter as cold temperatures increase demand for the fuel. Natural gas for delivery in January on the New York Mercantile Exchange tacked on 2.2 cents, or 1.04%, to trade at $2.091 per million British thermal units during U.S. morning hours. On Tuesday, natural gas fell to $2.014, the lowest since October 28, before turning higher to end up 0.3 cents, or 0.15%, at $2.070, on forecasts for a warmer-than-normal start to winter due to the El Niño weather pattern. Prices of the fuel typically rise ahead of the winter as colder weather sparks heating demand. But warmer temperatures throughout the autumn and early winter limited demand, underlining concerns over a deepening supply glut and driving prices to multi-year lows near $2 per million British thermal units at the end of October. The heating season from November through March is the peak demand period for U.S. gas consumption. Elsewhere on the Nymex, crude oil for delivery in January inched up 43 cents, or 1.15%, to trade at $37.94 a barrel, while heating oil for January delivery shed 0.2% to trade at $1.256 per gallon. 
