Title: Crude posts slight gains, amid IEA warnings on investment cutbacks
Date: 20151110
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude futures closed moderately higher on a choppy, volatile day of trading, amid stark warnings from the International Energy Agency on the ramifications of severe investment cutbacks in the industry. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for December delivery traded between $43.59 and $44.76 a barrel before closing at 44.25, up 0.38 or 0.85% on the session. At one point on Tuesday, U.S. crude futures fell to near two-week lows before rallying in afternoon trading. After surging above $50 a barrel in mid-October, Texas Long Sweet futures have plunged by more than 10%. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for January delivery wavered between $47.68 and $48.52 before settling at 48.13, up 0.21 or 0.45% on the day. North Sea brent futures also dipped to its lowest level since Oct. 28 on Tuesday. Brent futures have slumped by approximately 8% over the last month. In its annual World Energy Outlook for 2015, the Paris-based International Energy Agency (IEA) cautioned that lower oil prices could trigger sizable energy-security concerns by increasing the reliance on a limited number of low-cost producers. By 2020, the IEA forecasts that a tightening of the global supply-demand imbalance will lead to a price around $80 a barrel "with further increases in prices thereafter." "It would be a grave mistake to index our attention to energy security to changes in the oil price," IEA Executive Director Fatih Birol said in the report. "Now is not the time to relax. Quite the opposite: a period of low oil prices is the moment to reinforce our capacity to deal with future energy security threats." Since peaking above $100 a barrel last summer, crude prices have plummeted by more than 50%, amid a glut of oversupply throughout the world. Crude prices have also fallen precipitously since OPEC roiled global energy markets last November with a strategic decision to maintain its production ceiling above 30 million barrels per day. Energy traders also await the release of the American Petroleum Institute's weekly crude stockpile report for further indications on supply levels in U.S. domestic energy markets. Separately, Thursday's government report could show that crude inventory levels nationwide rose by 0.75 million barrels for the week ending on Nov. 6. A week earlier, crude stockpiles increased by 2.84 million barrels to 482.8 million, remaining near levels not seen in at least 80 years. The report will be delayed by one day this week due to Wednesday's Veteran's Day holiday. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, soared to a fresh seven-month high on Tuesday at 99.60. In U.S. afternoon trading, the index fell slightly back to 99.32, still up 0.20% on the session. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates.
