Title: NYMEX crude weaker in Asia as China econ data mixed, GDP gains noted
Date: 20151018
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil fell in Asia on Monday as investors noted mixed economic data out of China that showed slightly better GDP growth figures than expected. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in November fell 0.17% to $47.64 a barrel. In China, third quarter GDP rose 1.8%, a tad better than the 1.7% gain seen and at an annual pace of 6.9%, also beating the expected 6.8% rise expected. Fixed asset investment rose 10.3%, below the gain of 10.8% seen year-on-year in September and industrial output rose 5.7%, well below the expected 6.0% gain year-on-year in September, while retail sales rose 10.9%, above the 10.8% seen in the same period. The data is closely watched amid fears that a China-led slowdown in global growth could prompt the Fed to delay hiking rates for longer. Earlier, Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda on Monday said the central bank will make necessary adjustments to its aggressive easing while monitoring risks to growth and inflation. "The QQE (quantitative and qualitative monetary easing) has been exerting its intended effects," he said to a meeting of bank staff. He also repeated the BOJ's mantra that it will continue with QQE, aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2%, "as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner." "The BoJ will continue to monitor both upside and downside risks to growth and inflation, and make adjustments as appropriate," he said. The BoJ will release its quarterly report on economic conditions in Japan's nine regions at 1400 JST (0500 GMT). In July, one region upgraded its economic assessment from three months earlier while the remaining eight regions maintained their views, with all saying the economy was recovering. As well in New Zealand, labor costs rose 0.5% as expected in the third quarter. Last week, industry research group  Baker Hughes  (N:N:BHI) said late Friday that the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. decreased by 10 last week to 595, the seventh straight weekly decline. Over the prior six weeks, drillers had cut 70 rigs. A lower U.S. rig count is usually a bullish sign for oil as it signals potentially lower production in the future. Despite Friday's gains, New York-traded oil futures tumbled $2.25, or 4.78%, on the week, as mostly bearish outlooks for supply and demand and for the global economy remained on investors' minds. Elsewhere, on the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for December delivery tacked on 73 cents, or 1.47%, on Friday to close the week at $50.46 a barrel. London-traded Brent futures still lost $2.18, or 4.16%, on the week, as ongoing worries over the health of the global economy fueled concerns that a global supply glut may stick around for longer than anticipated. The oil market has been volatile in recent months amid uncertainty about how quickly the global glut of crude is set to shrink. Despite this tighter outlook for North America, output remains robust in other countries. Global oil production is outpacing demand following a boom in U.S. shale oil production and after a decision by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries last year not to cut production. Saudi Arabia and other Gulf OPEC members have indicated they will continue to stick to their policy of defending market share by keeping production high. A meeting of OPEC technical experts in Vienna on October 21 may shed further light on the group's position of maintaining production at current levels as prices remain muted. Oil prices have lost nearly 60% since last summer as lingering concerns over a glut in world markets drove down prices. 
