Title: Gold continues slide, as Greece clings to hopes for last-minute deal
Date: 20150630
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold futures fell mildly extending losses from the previous session amid a stronger dollar, as emergency talks in the Greek Debt Crisis dragged into the final hours before a second bailout from international creditors expired on Tuesday evening. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for August delivery dipped 5.50 or 0.51% to 1,173.00 a troy ounce to touch down to near three-week lows. Gold futures wavered between 1,168.40 and 1,180.00, ending the month down more than 1.5%. The precious metal ended June closing lower on eight of its last 10 sessions after reaching 1,205 on June 18 when it spiked more than 2.1%. Gold likely gained support at 1,162.10, the low from June 5 and was met with resistance at 1,200.80, the high from June 22. Gold futures pared earlier losses in U.S. afternoon trading, ahead of a conference call between Greece and its international creditors hours before the expiration of a €240 billion bailout. If Greece and its troika of creditors from the European Commission, European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund, are unable to reach a deal the cash-strapped nation will lose access to the final €7.2 billion tranche of the stimulus package. Separately, Greece said it would not make a €1.5 billion payment to the IMF stemming from a 2010 bailout, before the end of Tuesday's deadline. Greece joins Zimbabwe, Sudan, Somalia and Liberia as the only nations with overdue repayments to the IMF over the last decade. While Greece will become the first advanced economy in the 71-year history of the IMF to be placed in arrears, its failure to meet the obligation on time will not yet result in full default on its sovereign debt. If Greece remains in arrears only for a short period of time, there is a possibility the IMF will show leniency to the Mediterranean state once it repays its debts. Any nation in arrears with the IMF, which occurs when a debt or liability is overdue, is unable to receive access to the organization's resources until the debts are settled. Earlier, Greece proposed a two-year bailout program under the European Stability Mechanism, the euro zone's bailout fund. The proposal comes day after the Greek parliament scheduled a public referendum on July 5, which is largely viewed as a proxy on whether its citizens would like to remain in the euro zone. “From the first moment, we made clear that the decision to hold a referendum is not the end but the continuation of negotiations for better terms for the Greek people," the Greek government said in a statement. "The Greek government will until the end seek a viable agreement within the euro.” Germany chancellor Angela Merkel, meanwhile, remained adamant that no bailout discussions should be held between the two sides until after the referendum is completed. Gold is viewed as a safe haven for investors in periods of severe economic instability. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, surged 0.65% to 95.69. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Silver for September delivery fell 0.062 or 0.40% to 15.633 an ounce. Copper for September delivery dipped 0.018 or 0.67% to 2.616 a pound. Previously, gold rose modestly over the prior two months gaining 0.70% in May after ticking up 0.07% in April. One month earlier, gold futures plunged 2.42% in March after opening the month above $1,210. At the start of the year, gold opened at 1,186.80 an ounce.
