Title: Crude continues extended slump, as dollar surges to near 3-month highs
Date: 20150720
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude futures extended its recent downturn on Monday as the dollar surged to multi-month highs, amid continuing concerns of oversupply in global energy markets. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for September delivery traded between $50.37 and $51.57 a barrel before settling at 50.38, down 0.84 or 1.61% on the session. On Friday, Texas Long Sweet futures plunged more than 1.5% to an intraday low of $50.16 – nearly dipping below $50 a barrel for the first time since early-April. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for September delivery wavered between $56.45 and $57.44 a barrel before ending the session at 56.60, down 0.52 or 0.91%. The spread between the international and U.S. domestic benchmarks of crude stood at 6.22, just above Friday's level of 6.21. On Monday, the United Nations Security Council unanimously approved last week's accord between Iran and a group of Western powers on a comprehensive nuclear deal. The lifting of longstanding, severe economic sanctions against Iran could allow the Gulf state to double its export level over the next year. While the nation is expected to flood global markets with Iranian crude after the sanctions are lifted, it could still be several months before the Gulf state is able to ramp up its exports. The pact reached last week still must complete a 60-day review from U.S. Congress and could be hampered by even further delays due to political wrangling. The deal is viewed as bearish for crude, as an outflow of Iranian oil could depress a market already saturated by oversupply. Lower crude prices weigh on the poorer members of Opec, whose national economies are heavily dependent on oil proceeds to boost their GDP. Last week, Algerian energy minister Salah Khabri told a state-run news agency that an emergency Opec meeting might be needed in order for the member states to craft a long-term strategy. Last November, Opec triggered a protracted battle for global market share by keeping its production ceiling above 30 million barrels per day. While the world's largest oil cartel reportedly employed the strategy in an effort to undercut U.S. shale producers, U.S. crude output has remained near record-highs over the last several months. Though U.S. production fell slightly last week to 9.562 million barrels per day it is still more than 1.1 million bpd higher than the average level from July, 2014. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, surged to an intraday high of 98.20 its highest level since late-April before falling back slightly to 97.87. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates.
