Title: U.S crude extends losses, as investors digest bearish supply report
Date: 20151105
Content:
Investing.com -- U.S. crude futures fell steadily on Thursday extending losses from the previous session, as energy traders continued to digest a bearish supply report on nationwide inventory levels from the last week of October. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for December delivery traded in a range between $45.14 and $46.64 a barrel before settling at $45.30, down 1.02 or 2.21% on the session. Following a three-day winning streak last week, Texas Long Sweet futures have now closed lower in four of the last five sessions. In spite of the losses, U.S. crude futures are still up by approximately 1.20% over the last month of trading. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for December delivery wavered between $48.10 and $48.99 a barrel before closing at $48.05, down 0.52 or 1.05% on the day. North Brent Sea futures have also appreciated by roughly 1% in value over the last month. Meanwhile, the spread between the international and U.S. domestic benchmarks of crude stood at $2.75, above Wednesday's level of $2.30 at the close of trading. Investors continued to react to Wednesday's government report from the U.S Department of Energy when the Energy Information Administration said U.S. commercial crude oil inventories increased by 2.847 million barrels for the week ending on Oct. 30. While the stockpile build only narrowly exceeded analysts' expectations for a gain of 2.787 million, crude futures still plunged more than 3% on the session, as fears of global oversupply persist. At 482.8 million barrels, U.S. crude oil inventories remain near levels not seen for this time of year in at least the last 80 years. Crude prices have crashed by nearly 60% from last their level last summer when they peaked above $100 a barrel. Last November, OPEC rattled global energy markets with their decision to keep their production ceiling above 30 million barrels per day. The tactic sparked a prolonged battle with U.S. shale producers for market share, pushing prices to six-and-a-half year lows in August, amid a glut of oversupply. Investors turn to Friday's weekly U.S. oil rig count from oil services firm  Baker Hughes  (N:BHI) for further indications on production trends throughout the nation. Last week, the firm reported that U.S. oil rigs fell by 16 over the previous week to 578, for its ninth consecutive weekly decline. At its current level, the domestic rig count is at its lowest since June, 2010. Since August, drillers nationwide have taken nearly 100 oil rigs offline, providing further signals that production is about to fall sharply. Energy traders also reacted to a report from OPEC which forecasts dwindling global supply levels for the next several years through 2019, unless production slows by its rivals. The confidential report, which was reviewed by Reuters, predicts modest price increases of $5 a barrel each year up until 2020 when OPEC expects crude to reach $80 a barrel. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, gained more than 0.20% on Thursday to an intraday high of 98.24. With the slight gains, the dollar remained near three-month highs. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. 
