Title: NYMEX crude down in early Asia on official PMIs, Ciaxin ahead
Date: 20151101
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices fell in early Asia on Monday as investors digested official PMIs from China at the weekend and looked ahead to the Caixin survey. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in December fell 0.19% to $46.31 a barrel. China's weak start to the fourth quarter was evident by the two official PMIs released over the weekend, suggesting that the economy is showing little response to this year's monetary easing. The official manufacturing PMI for October, released on Sunday by the National Bureau of Statistics and the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing, came in with a reading of 49.8, the same as September, below the 50 level that marks contraction and expansion. The official non-manufacturing PMI, also released on Sunday, slipped to 53.1 from 53.4 in September, the lowest reading since December 2008. The PMIs offer the latest evidence that the economy is under increasing stress. China's biggest industrial companies are coming out with lousy nine-month results. Premier Li Keqiang gave words of reassurance over the weekend that the economy can maintain "medium to high-level growth" for some time, and that China's consumption has "a lot of room to grow." But even after the PBOC's interest-rate cut last month, the sixth in under a year, real interest rates for borrowers are still high. Last week, West Texas Intermediate oil futures rose to the highest level in almost two weeks on Friday, amid indications U.S. oil drillers are cutting back on production following a collapse in prices over the summer. Industry research group  Baker Hughes  (N:N:BHI) said late Friday that the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. decreased by 16 last week to 578, the ninth straight weekly decline and the lowest level since June 2010. Over the prior nine weeks, drillers in the U.S. have cut 97 rigs. A lower U.S. rig count is usually a bullish sign for oil as it signals potentially lower production in the future. Elsewhere, On the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for December delivery rose 76 cents, or 1.56%, on Friday to close at $49.56 a barrel after climbing to a session peak of $50.00, the most since October 19. The oil market has been volatile in recent months amid uncertainty about how quickly the global glut of crude is set to shrink. Global oil production is outpacing demand following a boom in U.S. shale oil production and after a decision by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries last year not to cut production. Despite this tighter outlook for North America, output remains robust in other countries. Saudi Arabia and other Gulf OPEC members have indicated they will continue to stick to their policy of defending market share by keeping production high. Oil prices have lost nearly 60% since last summer as lingering concerns over a glut in world markets drove down prices. 
