Title: NYMEX crude dips in early Asia as investors eye PMIs, OPEC ahead
Date: 20150531
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices eased in Asia on Monday, taking profits from gains last week and looking ahead to a busy data day on the manufacturing front.Energy traders are also awaiting a critical OPEC meeting in Vienna on Friday. The oil cartel is largely expected to keep production levels steady above 30 million barrels per day, despite ongoing concerns over ample global supplies.On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in July fell 0.67%, to $59.90 a barrel.On Monday, the Australia AI Group manufacturing index rose 4.3 points to 52.3, the highest since October 2013.Manufacturing is getting a boost mainly from food and beverages which are supported by local demand and exports as a result of a lower exchange rate."The flow of benefits for domestic producers from the lower Australian dollar is picking up as exports recover some of the ground lost in recent years," said AI Group Chief Executive Innes Willox."This was a clear positive for performance in May together with strong residential construction activity and very low interest rates and helped propel the sector into expansionary territory for the first time in six months. There remains a fine balance, however, and the rapid decline in mining construction, the progressive closure of automotive assembly and subdued local business investment in machinery and equipment continues to weigh on local demand."In Japan, capital spending for non-financial firms jumped 7.3% year-on-year in the first quarter, compared to an expected drop of 0.1%. Later Japan reports manufacturing for May with a steady 50.9 level seen.Up ahead in Australia comes the Melbourne Institute inflation gauge for May month-on-month, building approvals with a 2.0% decline seen, business inventories for the first quarter seen up 0.1% and company profits fort he first quarter, seen up 0.5% quarter-on-quarter.Then in China, the HSBC Manufacturing PMI for May comes out with 49.2 seen, a slight tick up from 49.1 in April.Last week, West Texas Intermediate oil futures soared more than 4% on Friday, after data showed that the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. fell by the most in four weeks last week, soothing worries that the sharp decline in drilling activity may be nearing an end.Industry research group  Baker Hughes  (NYSE:NYSE:BHI) said late Friday that the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. fell by 13 last week to 646. The drop marks the 25th straight week of declines and the biggest fall in four weeks.A week earlier, the rig count fell by just one, marking the slowest rate decline over the last 24 weeks and fuelling concerns that U.S. shale production could rebound in the months ahead.Market players have been paying close attention to the shrinking rig count in recent months for signs it will eventually reduce the glut of crude flowing into the market.The U.S. Energy Information Administration said on Wednesday that crude oil inventories fell by 2.8 million barrels last week to 479.4 million. It was the fourth straight weekly decline.Elsewhere, on the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent for July delivery rallied $2.98, or 4.76%, to end at $65.56 a barrel on Friday.Despite the disappointing reading, most market experts expect the U.S. economy to rebound in the second quarter, as transitory factors recede.Economic data released in the past week, including reports on inflation, new home sales, business investment and consumer confidence all indicated that the economy is gaining momentum after a slowdown in the first quarter, supporting the case for higher interest rates later this year.In the week ahead, investors will be focusing on Friday's nonfarm payrolls report for May, for fresh indications on the strength of the economy and the timing of a U.S. rate increase.On Monday, Germany is to release preliminary data on manufacturing activity. The euro zone is to release final data on manufacturing sector growth.Later in the day, the U.S. Institute of Supply Management is to release data on manufacturing activity. 
