Title: Crude Oil remains unchanged in spite of attacks on Libyan oil fields
Date: 20150305
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude oil prices remained virtually unchanged on Thursday in spite of continuing attacks by Islamic State militants that have forced the closure of nearly a dozen oil fields in Libya over the last week. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude oil for April delivery traded at $61.21 in U.S. afternoon trading, the same price it closed at a day earlier. Brent crude traded at a range of $60.95 in European afternoon trading after reaching a daily-high of $62.10 a barrel several hours earlier. WTI crude oil, meanwhile, fell slightly in U.S. afternoon trading dropping 0.38 or 0.74% to $51.15. WTI crude edged above $52 a barrel on Thursday morning before mildly falling back near Thursday's close. The spread between brent and WTI inched above $10 a barrel, after hovering around $9.78 on Wednesday. Earlier this week, traders pushed the spread to around the $13 level. The moderate price changes on Thursday defied a trend of extreme volatility in oil markets. Before trading on Thursday, crude oil prices moved in either an up or down direction by 2% in 27 of the last 40 trading days.  Exxon Mobil  (NYSE:XOM) CEO Rex Tillerson told CNBC on Thursday that oil prices could remain on a volatile path beyond 2015. "We need to pick up on market demand," Tillerson said. "If you look at the performance of the U.S. economy, it's okay but it's not robust. Europe is still struggling with declining demand and China actually slowed its rate of energy demand growth. All of those are conspiring to create this imbalance which is why I have indicated that people need to live with this for awhile." Tillerson's comments came one day after U.S. data indicated that oil supplies nationwide reached its highest level ever, deepening concerns that the price of crude could plunge further. The U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said in its weekly report that crude oil inventories rose by 10.3 million barrels for the week that ended Feb. 26, marking the largest weekly increase since 2002. Weekly inventory increases have been the norm of late. A week earlier, U.S. crude oil inventories rose by 8.4 million barrels for the week that ended Feb. 19 – more than doubling forecasts of a 4.0 million weekly increase. Elsewhere, natural gas futures for April delivery increased 2% or 0.056 to $2.825 per million BTU after the EIA reported a decline in inventory in its weekly report. Earlier on Thursday, natural gas futures reached a one-week high at $2.834.  
