Title: Gold dips in Asia on profit-taking from last week's gains on U.S. jobs
Date: 20151004
Content:
Investing.com - Gold held flat to slightly weaker in Asia on Monday as investors took gains from last week and looked ahead to Federal Reserve September meeting minutes this week. Gold for December delivery fell 0.02% to $1,136.40 a troy ounce. Elsewhere in precious metals trading, silver futures for December delivery eased 0.35% to $15.210 a troy ounce and copepr fell 0.07% to $2.343 a pound. In Japan average cash earnings for August rose 0.5%, a second straight rise, but below the gain of 0.7% expected. The average wages are likely to rebound in the July-September quarter after dipping 0.7% on year in April-June, when the economy contracted on sluggish consumer spending and business investment amid a slow recovery in real wages, high import costs and uncertain global growth. Earlier, the TD-MI September inflation gauge in Australia rose to a gain of 0.3% month-on-month, from a gain of 0.1% in August. "Our tradable- and domestic-inflation gauges are converging toward an annual rate of 2% - phenomena that the RBA has already anticipated whereby the weaker Australian dollar may be boosting imported prices but benign domestic inflation provides an offset," TD Securities Asia-Pacific macro strategist Annette Beacher said. In the week ahead, investors will be focusing on Wednesday’s minutes of the Fed’s September meeting, when the central bank decided to delay hiking rates. Central bank meetings in Japan, Australia and the U.K. will also be closely watched. On Monday, markets in China are to remain closed for a national holiday. The U.K. is to release data on service sector activity. In the euro zone, the eurogroup of finance ministers are to hold talks in Brussels. The Institute of Supply Management is to release data on service sector activity. Last week, gold rallied on Friday after data showing that the U.S. economy added far fewer jobs than expected last month indicated that interest rates are likely to remain on hold until early next year. The Labor Department reported that the U.S. economy added just 142,000 jobs last month, well below expectations of the 201,000 expected by economists. August’s reading was revised down to 135,000, from the initial reported figure of 173,000. Average hourly earnings were flat month-on-month and the labor force participation rate fell to just 62.4%, down from 62.6% in August. The unemployment rate was unchanged at 5.1%, in line with forecasts. The report underlined fears that a slowdown in global economic growth has spread to the U.S. economy and prompted investors to push back expectations on the timing of an initial rate hike by the Federal Reserve to early 2016. Gold would benefit from any delay in raising U.S. interest rates as the precious metal would struggle to compete with yield-bearing assets. Higher rates would also boost the dollar, which would make dollar-denominated gold more expensive for holders of other currencies. 
