Title: WTI crude halts six-day skid as Iran talks continue, China concerns fade
Date: 20150709
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude futures surged more than 2% on Thursday halting an extended skid, amid dampened optimism for an Iranian Nuclear Deal, a rally in Chinese equities and further indications on the global supply balance following a slight build in U.S. stockpiles. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for August delivery soared to an intraday high of $53.53 a barrel, before falling slightly back to $52.81, up 1.16 or 2.26%. After ending June near $60 a barrel, Texas Long Sweet futures had closed lower during the previous six sessions falling approximately 14% in roughly the span of a week. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for August delivery reached a session-high of $59.25 a barrel, before settling at 58.66, up 1.62 or 2.84%. Brent futures are up more than $2 a barrel after plunging more than 6% during Monday's massive sell-off. In Vienna, hopes for a final agreement on an Iranian Nuclear Deal before Friday's deadline faded following equivocal comments from U.S. president Barack Obama on the possibility of an accord. Over the last two weeks, a deadline for comprehensive agreement has been extended on two separate occasions. "He said in the course of the negotiations he's been more optimistic, less optimistic. And he said that the chances at this point are below 50-50," Sen. Richard Durbin (D, Illinois) told CNN. The two sides continue to work out sticking points related to the easing of missile and economic sanctions against the Gulf state. A nuclear deal is viewed as bearish for crude, as Iran reportedly hoards 30 million barrels of crude in its reserves ready for export.An outflow of Iranian oil could depress crude prices in a global market already oversaturated by a glut of oversupply. It is widely believed that Iran will ramp up exports if a plethora of severe economic sanctions are lifted by western powers. In China, the Shanghai Composite Index rebounded from Wednesday's collapse gaining more than 5.75% in its strongest one-day move since March, 2009, amid widespread efforts from the Chinese government to restrict futures trading and prohibit short-selling from large shareholders over the next six months. In April, China surpassed the U.S. as the world's largest importer of oil. Energy traders await the release of oil services firm  Baker Hughes  (NYSE:BHI) weekly U.S. rig count on Friday for further indications on supply levels throughout the nation. Last week, the firm said U.S. oil rigs rose by 12 to 640, ending a 29-week streak of weekly draws. On Wednesday, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said U.S. crude inventories increased by 400,000 barrels for the week ending on July 3, above expectations for a 500,000 draw. U.S. crude stockpiles are now at 465.8 million barrels, remaining near levels not seen for this time of year in at least the last 80 years. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, gained 0.46% to 96.82 in spite of higher than anticipated U.S. initial jobless claims last week. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. 
