Title: NYMEX crude lower in Asia as Greece talks drag, mixed China trade data
Date: 20150712
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices fell sharply in Asia Monday as events in Brussels over Greece's bailout package weighed and as trade data from China came in at a surplus narrower than expected though imports fell less than expected and exports showed a surprise gain. China's trade surplus reached $46.6 billion in June, while in U.S. dollar terms imports fell 6.1%, a better showing that the 15% drop expected year-on-year. Exports gained 2.8%, a good boost above the 0.2% fall seen. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in August fell 1.54% at $51.93 a barrel. Greece may get €7 billion in "bridge" finance before July 20 to enable it to make payments and keep the banking system afloat while parliament passes a long list of tough reforms, EU sources said of the most promising effort so far in last-minute talks on Sunday to secure a deal. According to an assessment drafted by the Eurogroup and provided to euro zone leaders in Brussels on Sunday, Greece needs a total of €7 billion before July 20 to cover its financing needs, with €3.5 billion of that amount being owed to the European Central Bank. Leaders are discussing using a mixture of €1.9 billion still owed to Greece from profits the ECB made as part of its securities markets program as well as a potential cash disbursement from €13 billion still lying dormant inside the European Financial Stabilisation Mechanism, an old bailout fund created in 2010 to provide financial assistance to EU member states. A qualified majority inside the ECOFIN Council, which means 16 out of 28 countries, would have to vote in favor of it, according to reports. Last week, crude oil futures ended Friday's session little changed as the continuation of Greek and Iranian negotiations, as well as concerns in China remained in focus. On the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent for September delivery tacked on 12 cents, or 0.2%, to close at $59.00 a barrel after hitting a three-month low of $55.09 on July 7 on Friday. Market sentiment was supported amid renewed optimism that Greece would reach a deal on a new bailout with its creditors, allowing the country to remain on in the euro zone. Hopes for a breakthrough were boosted after Greece put forward new proposals on budget cuts and economic reforms ahead of a meeting of the euro group of finance ministers on Saturday. Failure to reach an agreement this weekend would significantly increase the likelihood of Greece falling into bankruptcy and leaving the single currency union. Oil traders were also eyeing nuclear talks between the West and Iran, which could push millions of barrels of crude into the oversupplied world market. Tehran wants to double oil exports to more than two million barrels a day if a deal is reached and sanctions are lifted according to a top Iranian official. Meanwhile, investors monitored volatile movements in Chinese stock markets. Equity markets in China plunged sharply over the past three weeks, forcing policymakers to intervene this week and provide measures to boost liquidity and calm investors. Market players are concerned that the plunge in the stock market could spread to other parts of the Chinese economy, triggering fears that the Asian nation's demand for oil will decline. China is the world's second largest oil consumer after the U.S. and has been the engine of strengthening demand. Industry research group  Baker Hughes  (NYSE:NYSE:BHI) said late Friday that the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. rose by five last week to 645, marking the second straight week of gains after 29 weeks of declines. The International Energy Agency on Friday forecast weaker global oil demand next year and warned that prices are set to come under further pressure from an expanding glut of crude. Global oil production is outpacing demand following a boom in U.S. shale oil production and after a decision by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries last year not to cut production. In the week ahead, developments in Greece look likely to continue to dominate sentiment after talks between euro zone finance ministers on a third bailout for Greece ended without an agreement on Saturday. China is to release data on second quarter growth, while monetary policy statements by the European Central Bank and central banks in Japan and Canada will also be in focus. On Monday, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Counties will publish its monthly assessment of oil markets. 
