Title: Gold gains slightly in Asia as China GDP, retail sales better than seen
Date: 20150715
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices gained slightly in Asia on Wednesday as China reported better than expected GDP, industrial output and retail sales and ahead of a comemnts by the Federal Reserve chief. Investors await the start of Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen's two-day testimony before Congress on Wednesday for further indications on the timing of a highly-anticipated interest rate hike. On Friday, Yellen said the Fed anticipates raising interest rates later this year if the U.S. economy and labor markets continue to show improvement in the coming weeks. China reported 7.0% year-on-year GDP growth in the second quarter, better than the 6.9% pace seen, while industrial output jumped 6.8% in June year-on-year, compared to a gain of 6.0% expected. Retail sales jumped 10.6%, better than the 10.2% increase seen in June. Earlier, Australia's Westpac-MI Consumer Confidence survey for July fell 3.2% to 92.2, the lowest since December last year. "Despite current market expectations we would also put a limited chance of a move in November," Westpac chief economist Bill Evans said. "In fact we are comfortable to retain the view that rateswill remain on hold for the remainder of this year and throughout 2016." The Bank of Japan voted 8 to 1 as expected on Wednesday to keep monetary policy steady as board member Takahide Kiuchi once again dissented and called for a cut in outright government bond buying by nearly half. The board said exports and output were picking up even as consumer prices are nearly flat year-on-year. Kiuchi has called for trimming asset purchased by the BoJ to ¥45 trillion annually from ¥80 trillion set in October last year. BoJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda's news conference is at 1530 (0630 GMT). On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for August delivery rose 0.05% $1,154.10 a troy ounce. Silver for September delivery gained 0.01% to $15.317 a troy ounce. Copper for September delivery dipped 0.14% to $2.537 a pound. Overnight, Gold futures experienced little movement on Tuesday amid a flat dollar, even as Iran reached a comprehensive nuclear deal with its western partners and Greece prime minister Alexis Tsipras sought support from Parliament for a historic bailout from its euro zone creditors. In Athens, members of Parliament continued to assess Monday's landmark agreement between Greece and its troika of international creditors on a three-year, €86 bailout before Wednesday's critical vote. The deal requires Parliament to ratify four measures related to tax, pension and budget reforms in order to trigger a vote from six other national parliaments throughout the euro zone. George Stathakis, Greece's economy minister, predicted that Tsipras will wait until after Wednesday's vote to reshuffle his cabinet, but added that the changes could comes as early as today. Speaking exclusively with Bloomberg, Stathakis said he believes Greek banks will not reopen until after the bailout program is approved by the other national parliaments as early as the start of next week. Meanwhile, officials from the International Monetary Fund urged the euro zone to provide Greece with a more manageable debt sustainability program, by offering a 30-year grace period for the cash-strapped nation to repay its debts. While the European creditors are considering pushing back repayment dates and slashing interest rates on loans to Greece through the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), euro zone officials have been reluctant to offer a haircut on its significant debt obligations. In addition, IMF officials warned that Greece's debt level could reach 200% of its GDP in the near future if debt sustainability measures are not taken immediately. "The dramatic deterioration in debt sustainability points to the need for debt relief on a scale that would need to go well beyond what has been under consideration to date and what has been proposed by the ESM," the IMF said in a statement. Gold is viewed as a safe haven for investors in periods of severe economic instability. In Vienna, Iran and the group of P5 + 1 member states agreed on a final accord on a long-term nuclear deal, hours after extending a deadline for the third time over the last three weeks. The U.S. Congress will begin a 60-day review period once it receives a submission of the deal, Sen. Bob Corker (R, Tennessee) said in a statement. The period could be extended by an additional 12 days if the Senate and House of Representatives decide to submit a joint resolution to the White House. After falling more than 2% following the completion of the deal, WTI crude futures rose sharply several hours later. In U.S. afternoon trading, WTI crude for August delivery peaked above $53 a barrel, gaining roughly 1.5% for the session. 
