Title: Copper tumbles 2% on China deflation fears
Date: 20150310
Content:
Investing.com - Copper prices fell sharply on Tuesday, after data showed that producer price deflation in China deepened in February, underling concerns over a slowdown in the world's second largest economy. Government data released earlier showed that Chinese inflation for February picked up to 1.4%, above expectations for 0.9% and up from 0.8% in January. However, the producer price index fell by a more-than-expected 4.8% last month, underling concerns over the health of the world's second largest economy. The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for almost 40% of world consumption last year. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, copper for May delivery dropped 5.3 cents, or 1.99%, to trade at $2.617 a pound during European morning hours. A day earlier, copper surged 6.1 cents, or 2.36%, to settle at $2.670 a pound. Futures were likely to find support at $2.592, the low from March 9, and resistance at $2.677, the high from March 9. Elsewhere on the Comex, gold futures for April delivery shed $8.60, or 0.74%, to trade at $1,157.90 a troy ounce, while silver futures for May delivery dropped 11.4 cents, or 0.72% to trade at $15.66 an ounce. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, was up 0.8% to 98.43, the highest level since September 2003. A stronger U.S. dollar usually weighs on gold, as it dampens the metal's appeal as an alternative asset and makes dollar-priced commodities more expensive for holders of other currencies. Demand for the dollar continued to be underpinned after the latest U.S. jobs report solidified expectations for higher interest rates. The Federal Reserve is expected to begin raising interest rates around the middle of this year and investors were looking ahead to next week’s policy statement to see if it would drop its reference to being patient before raising rates. Expectations of higher borrowing rates going forward is considered bearish for gold, as the precious metal struggles to compete with yield-bearing assets when rates are on the rise. Meanwhile, the euro was likely to remain under pressure as investors continued to monitor talks surrounding Greek reform proposals between Greece and the Eurogroup of finance ministers. Greece reportedly agreed to allow experts representing the European Commission, ECB and International Monetary Fund to start work in Athens on Wednesday. Last month Greece reached a temporary agreement with its lenders to extend its bailout by four months, but must complete a bailout review by April before it can access further financial aid. 
