Title: Brent crude plunges to 11-year lows, as supply concerns intensify
Date: 20151221
Content:
Investing.com -- North Sea brent crude futures slumped to an 11-year low on Monday in spite of a weaker dollar, as a spike in oil rigs last week provided little indications of any declines in near-record oversupply levels. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for February delivery wavered between $36.05 and $36.75 a barrel, before settling at $36.28, down 0.60 or 1.63% on the session. At session lows on Monday, North Sea brent futures fell to their lowest level since July, 2004. Over the last two months, brent futures have lost nearly one-quarter in value. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for February delivery traded between $35.36 and $36.09 a barrel, before closing at 35.73, down 0.33 or 0.90% on the trading day. U.S. crude futures remained near their lowest level in seven years during the height of the Financial Crisis. In addition, the January contract fell to near $34 a barrel on its final day of trading before its expiration on Monday. The spread between the international and U.S. domestic benchmark of crude stood at 0.55, falling near its lowest level of the year. Investors continued to react to bearish supply data last Friday when oil services firm  Baker Hughes  (N:BHI) said U.S. oil rigs rose by 17 to 541 last week for the week ending on December 11. A week earlier, the rig count fell by 21 to 524, its sharpest drop in two months. Any increase in the rig count provides a lagging indicator that U.S. crude production could be on the rise. It followed a U.S. government report days earlier that showed U.S. commercial crude inventories rose by 4.8 million barrels last week to 490.7 million barrels, its highest level in at least 80 years. Oil prices worldwide have plunged more than 50% since OPEC roiled global markets last November with its strategic decision to maintain its production ceiling at a level above 30 million barrels per day. More recently, both benchmarks have fallen more than 15% over the last two weeks after OPEC resisted further production cuts  at a closely-watched meeting in Vienna. Crude prices have lingered near multi-year lows throughout the year, amid a glut of oversupply on global energy markets. Separately, the CEO of Russia's second-largest oil company said on Monday that he believes that crude prices could rebound to between $40 and $50 a barrel by the middle of next year. Speaking exclusively to CNBC, Lukoil CEO Vagit Alekperov said he expects crude prices to rally as the development of new capital projects continue to cease. The resulting decline in production volume could help move prices upward, Alexperov added. The head of Lukoil also pressured OPEC to enact "dramatic changes" for regulating its production volumes in order to stabilize worldwide crude markets. Earlier this month, Russia and Saudi Arabia were reportedly unable to reach an agreement on collaborative production cuts before OPEC's semi-annual meeting. Monthly output among the two major oil producing states remains near record-highs at above 10 million barrels per day. Oil market liquidity, or the ability to buy or sell easily on the futures markets, typically declines in pre-Holiday trade, exaggerating the impact of intraday moves. Banks and hedge funds can add liquidity by taking the other side of transactions with counterparties when momentum is running strongly in a particular direction. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback against a basket of six other major currencies, fell by more than 0.35% to an intraday low of 98.30. Earlier this month, the index eclipsed 100.00, reaching its highest level on the calendar year. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates.
