Title: NYMEX crude rebounds in Asia as investors buy on sharp overnight dip
Date: 20150715
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices rebounded in Asia Thursday as investors took a chance to buy following a sharp overnight dip caused by expectations that supplies globally will remain more than ample for some time. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for August delivery rose 0.39% to $51.61 a barrel. Greece's parliament passed a key austerity bill needed to kick start a third bailout program with Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras vowing not to resign and pledging to go after oligarchs, tax evasion and corruption, reports said. The vote was 229 yes, 64 no and 6 present, reflecting support on the measures from opposition parties. In the final moments of debate, Tsipras said that he would remain in office and that his government would not relinquish power as of the result of the deal he made earlier this week with Greece's international creditors. Overnight, crude futures fell sharply on Wednesday amid a stronger dollar, as U.S. inventories predictably plunged last week following two prior weeks of sizable builds. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude for September delivery reached a peak of $58.94, before closing at a session low of 57.03, down 1.64 or 2.79% for the day on Wednesday. In its weekly Petroleum Status Report, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said U.S. crude inventories fell by 4.3 million barrels for the week ending on July 10. Analysts had expected a draw of 1.2 million barrels for the week. On Tuesday, the American Petroleum Institute (API) reported a weekly decline of 7.3 million barrels. U.S. crude stockpiles are still at 461.4 million, its highest level at this point of the year in at least 80 years. At the Cushing Oil Hub in Oklahoma, the main delivery point for Nymex crude oil, its inventory increased by 438,000 barrels on the week, extending a build of 290,000 from a week earlier. Energy traders continue to focus on U.S. crude output, amid the protracted race with Opec suppliers for control of global market share. Last week, U.S. production fell by 42,000 barrels per day to 9.562 million bpd, as output in the lower 48 states fell by 66,000. By comparison, Opec production in June soared to a three-year high as output in Saudi Arabia reached a record 10.6 million bpd. Investors continued to digest Tuesday's landmark nuclear deal between Iran and a group of six Western powers. Iran is expected to double its export level to roughly 2 million barrels per day once a wide range of crippling economic sanctions are lifted. The deal is viewed as bearish for crude, as an outflow of Iranian oil could depress a market already saturated by oversupply. 
