Title: Gold futures trim losses after consumer spending data
Date: 20150601
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices trimmed losses on Monday, as the U.S. dollar gave back some of its strong overnight gains following the release of disappointing U.S. personal spending data.On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold futures for August delivery shed 90 cents, or 0.08%, to trade at $1,188.90 a troy ounce during U.S. morning hours. Prices held in a range between $1,184.80 and $1,197.30. On Friday, gold tacked on $1.00, or 0.08%, to settle at $1,189.80. Futures were likely to find support at $1,180.20, the low from May 28, and resistance at $1,208.90, the high from May 26.The Commerce Department said that personal spending was flat in April, compared to expectations for a gain of 0.2% and following an increase of 0.5% in March.Consumer spending is the single biggest source of U.S. economic growth, accounting for as much as two-thirds of economic activity. The report also showed personal income rose by 0.4% in April, above forecasts for a 0.3% increase and after holding flat in March. Meanwhile, the core PCE price index inched up 0.1% in April, below expectations for 0.2% and after rising 0.1% in March. The core PCE price index rose at an annualized rate of 1.2%, down from a 1.3% gain in March and compared to forecasts of 1.3%.The Federal Reserve uses core PCE as a tool to help determine whether to raise or lower interest rates, with the aim of keeping inflation at a rate of 2% or below.The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, was at 97.16, coming off a session high of 97.58.Investors looked ahead to the release of key data later in the session for further indications over the timing of a rate increase and the strength of the economy.The Institute of Supply Management was to release data on manufacturing activity for May later Monday. Market players are also looking ahead to the nonfarm payrolls report due later this week.The greenback has been well-supported in recent sessions amid speculation the Federal Reserve was on track to raise interest rates in September.Recent economic data has indicated that the U.S. economy is gaining momentum after a slowdown in the first quarter, supporting the case for higher interest rates later this year.Expectations of higher borrowing rates going forward is considered bearish for gold, as the precious metal struggles to compete with yield-bearing assets when rates are on the rise.Also on the Comex, silver futures for July delivery dipped 1.3 cents, or 0.08%, to trade at $16.68 a troy ounce. Silver inched up 3.2 cents, or 0.19%, on Friday to end at $16.70.Elsewhere in metals trading, copper for July delivery fell 0.8 cents, or 0.3%, to trade at a seven-week low of $2.720 a pound. A pair of manufacturing reports released on Monday underlined concerns over the health of China's manufacturing sector.The HSBC final manufacturing index for May came in at 49.2, remaining below the 50-point level that separates growth in activity from contraction for the third straight month.Meanwhile, the official China's manufacturing purchasing managers' index inched up to 50.2 last month from 50.1 in April, broadly in line with market expectations.China's economy grew at the slowest pace in six years in the first quarter, underling speculation policymakers will have to introduce further easing measures to jumpstart the economy amid lackluster growth.Since November, the People's Bank of China has introduced a series of stimulus measures, including lowering interest rates three times and cutting the reserve requirement ratios of major banks twice, in order to spur economic activity and boost growth.The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for almost 40% of world consumption last year. Copper traders view Chinese factory activity as an indicator of the nation's copper demand, as the red metal is widely used by the sector.In the currency market, the euro slipped lower against the dollar on Monday as ongoing concerns over the prospect of a Greek debt default weighed.Concerns over a possible default have mounted since Athens warned last month that it will be unable to make the repayment if a cash-for-reforms deal with its international lenders was not reached by then.Greece is due to make a €305 million payment to the International Monetary Fund on June 5. 
