Title: Gold moves higher, as Germany considers incremental aid deal to Greece
Date: 20150610
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold futures posted significant gains on Wednesday extending a recent rally, as unconfirmed reports surfaced of a potential breakthrough in negotiations between Greece and its international creditors. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for August delivery rose 9.60 or 0.82% to $1,187.30 a troy ounce. Gold futures moved higher for the fourth consecutive session after touching down to an 11-week low at $1,162.10 last week. Gold traded between a broad range of $1,174.60 and $1,191.80 on Wednesday. The precious metal pared earlier gains amid positive developments in Greek debt talks. In Brussels, Bloomberg reported that Germany chancellor Angela Merkel is prepared to offer an incremental deal to Greece if the cash-strapped nation is committed to accepting some of the reforms proposed by its creditors last week. The reforms include: a higher imposition of taxes, the issuance of less generous retirement benefits to municipal workers and increased state asset sales, according to reports. Merkel could be satisfied with a deal if Greece commits to at least one of the aforementioned reforms. In exchange for the austerity measures, the plan reportedly calls for Greece to receive a small disbursement of the remaining €7.2 billion of a €240 billion bailout. The staggered aid package could be enough for Greece to meet a €1.5 billion obligation to the International Monetary Fund at the end of the month. It is unknown if the disbursement will be enough to cover separate obligations to the IMF and the European Central Bank later this summer. Greece owes a €0.5 billion loan repayment to the IMF in mid-July, followed by a €3.5 billion payment to the ECB a week later. At the start of August, Greece owes a modest €0.2 billion repayment to the IMF before another payment of more than €3.0 billion is due to the ECB at the end of the month. Greece prime minister Alexis Tsipras is scheduled to meet with France president Francois Hollande and Merkel on Wednesday evening. The developments could ease fears that Greece could leave the European Union and possibly default on its sovereign debt. "Grexit is off the table, we want to keep Greece in the euro zone," Spain's economic minister Luis de Guindos told Reuters. Gold is viewed as a safe-haven for investors in periods of severe economic instability. Elsewhere, the improved economic outlook in Europe continued to extend the ongoing bond rout in the euro zone. Yields on German 10-Year bunds hit 1% for the first time since September, while yields on Italian 10-Yearbonds reached their highest level since November. Meanwhile, the U.S. Dollar Index touched a three-week low at 94.31 before rebounding slightly to 94.75. The U.S. Dollar Index, measures the strength of the greenback, versus a basket of six other major currencies. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Silver for July delivery gained 0.011 or 0.07% to 15.968 a troy ounce. Copper for July delivery surged 0.032 or 1.20% to 2.746 a pound.
