Title: Gold continues slide amid positive Greek developments, mixed U.S. data
Date: 20150716
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold futures continued their steady decline on Thursday one day after touching down to 2015 yearly lows, amid positive developments in the Greek Debt crisis and mixed U.S. economic data. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for August delivery fell 3.50 or 0.41% to 1,143.80 to extend a recent losing streak to its fourth straight session. Gold futures traded in a tight range on Thursday's session, wavering between a low of 1,141.30 and 1,147.70. The precious metal is down roughly 5% since peaking above 1,200 an ounce in mid-June. Gold has now closed lower in six of the last seven sessions in spite of instability in the Chinese economy and slow moving talks in the Greek Debt and Iranian Nuclear negotiations. On Wednesday, gold plummeted to 1,132.80 its lowest level in more than seven months, before rallying slightly back above 1,140. Gold is typically viewed as a safe-haven for investors in period of severe economic uncertainty. After temporary resolutions in both longstanding disputes earlier this week, investors could be wary of even further declines in gold. Hours after the Greek parliament approved four measures required to complete a comprehensive third bailout from euro zone creditors, the European Central Bank (ECB) granted the cash-strapped nation EUR 900 million in a move that could help banks throughout the nation reopen. In addition, euro zone officials finalized an agreement to provide Greece with EUR 7 billion in short-term bridge financing that will allow it to meet a EUR 3.5 billion obligation to the ECB next week. In the U.S. investors continued to digest market-moving comments from Janet Yellen on Wednesday when the head of the Federal Reserve sent strong indications that current economic conditions are likely to justify an interest rate hike at some point this year. Yellen's comments before Congress during her semi-annual Hawkins-Humphrey testimony likely signal that the Fed will raise its benchmark Federal Funds Rate during FOMC meetings in either September or December. Gold, which is not attached to dividends or interest rates, struggles to compete with high yield bearing assets in periods of rising interest rates. Elsewhere, the dollar edged up following the release of strong weekly employment and housing data before, paring some of its gains later in the session. Last week, initial claims for U.S. state unemployment benefits fell 15,000 to a seasonally adjusted 281,000 for the week ended July 11, according to the U.S. Department of Labor. The short-term outlook in the manufacturing sector, however, is less optimistic. Separately, the Philadelphia Fed said its business activity index fell to 5.7 in July, down from a reading of 15.2 last month. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, gained 0.42% to 97.70. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Silver for September delivery fell 0.065 or 0.43% to 14.988 an ounce. Copper for September delivery dipped 0.002 or 0.09% to 2.519 a pound.
