Title: Crude falls to 2-week lows, amid considerable API inventory build
Date: 20151111
Content:
Investing.com -- U.S. crude futures fell sharply to fresh two-week lows on Wednesday, following a considerably stronger than expected inventory build from the American Petroleum Institute last week. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for December delivery traded between $42.63 and $44.11 a barrel before settling at $42.95, down % on the session. For the majority of the session, the front month contract for U.S. crude futures traded below $43 a barrel for the first time since October 27. Texas Long Sweet futures have now closed down by more than 2% in four of the last seven sessions. WTI crude futures haven't slipped below $42 a barrel since late-August. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for January delivery wavered between $46.51 and $48.37 a barrel before closing at $46.58, down 1.51 or 3.14% on the day. North Sea brent futures have also hit a rough patch over the last week of trading. Since reaching three-week highs near $51 a barrel last week, brent futures have plunged by nearly 8% in value. Investors on Wednesday reacted to bearish supply data from the previous session when the API reported that U.S. weekly crude inventories surged by 6.3 million barrels for the week ending on Nov. 6. A survey of analysts by Platts anticipated a build of only 500,000 on the week. Within the report, a spike in imports by 198,000 offset an increase in refinery crude runs of 193,000 barrels. Separately, crude inventories at the Cushing Oil Hub in Oklahoma rose by 2.5 barrels for the week. Cushing is the nation's main delivery point for NYMEX oil. A more closely-watched government report from the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) will be released on Thursday, one day later than usual due to the Veterans Day holiday. A week earlier, crude stockpiles increased by 2.84 million barrels to 482.8 million, remaining near levels not seen in at least 80 years. Any major increases in crude stockpiles are typically viewed as bearish for WTI futures, amid a glut of oversupply on energy markets. Crude prices are down by more than 40% over the last year since OPEC roiled global markets with a strategic decision to leave its production ceiling above 30 million barrels per day. The world's largest oil cartel meets next on Dec. 4. Investors also continued to digest warnings from the International Energy Agency earlier this week on the consequences of severe investment cutbacks in the industry. By 2020, though, the Paris-based agency forecasts that a tightening of the global supply-demand imbalance will lead to a price around $80 a barrel "with further increases in prices thereafter." The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, fell steadily on Wednesday one day after surging above 99.50 to reach a fresh seven-month high. In U.S. afternoon trading, the index stood at 99.04, down 0.23% on the day. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates.
