Title: Gold / Silver / Copper futures - weekly outlook: June 1 - 5
Date: 20150531
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices inched up modestly on Friday, after data showed that the U.S. economy contracted in the first three months of the year.On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold futures for August delivery tacked on $1.00, or 0.08%, to settle at $1,189.80 a troy ounce by close of trade. A day earlier, prices slumped to $1,180.20, the lowest since May 11.Futures were likely to find support at $1,180.20, the low from May 28, and resistance at $1,208.90, the high from May 26.Official data released Friday showed that the U.S. economy contracted 0.7% in the first three months of 2015, compared to an initial estimate of growth of 0.2%. The downward revision was broadly in line with analysts' expectations.Despite the disappointing reading, most market experts expect the U.S. economy to rebound in the second quarter, as transitory factors recede.For the week, prices of the precious metal lost $16.50, or 1.25%, the second straight weekly decline, amid growing expectations that the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates after the summer.Economic data released in the past week, including reports on inflation, new home sales, business investment and consumer confidence all indicated that the economy is gaining momentum after a slowdown in the first quarter, supporting the case for higher interest rates later this year.Expectations of higher borrowing rates going forward is considered bearish for gold, as the precious metal struggles to compete with yield-bearing assets when rates are on the rise.The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, slid 0.2% on Friday to end at 96.94, moving further way from Wednesday’s five-week peak of 97.88.Despite Friday's losses, the dollar still rose 0.9% on the week after Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen said last week that the central bank expects to start raising interest rates later this year if the economy continues to improve as expected.Also on the Comex, silver futures for July delivery ended Friday's session at $16.70 a troy ounce, up 3.2 cents, or 0.19%. Silver fell to $16.54 on Thursday, the weakest level since May 13.On the week, silver prices declined 34.9 cents, or 2.05%, the second consecutive weekly loss.Elsewhere in metals trading, copper for July delivery tumbled 3.9 cents, or 1.43%, on Friday to settle at $2.728 a pound after hitting a daily low of $2.724, a level not seen since April 24. For the week, prices of the red metal dropped 7.2 cents, or 2.95%, the second straight weekly decline, amid mounting concerns over the health of China's economy.The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for almost 40% of world consumption last year.In the week ahead, investors will be focusing on Friday's nonfarm payrolls report for May, for fresh indications on the strength of the economy and the timing of a U.S. rate increase.Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of these and other significant events likely to affect the markets. Monday, June 1China is to release official data on manufacturing and service sector growth as well as the final reading of the HSBC manufacturing index.Later in the day, the Institute of Supply Management is to release data on manufacturing activity.Tuesday, June 2The U.S. is to report on factory orders.Wednesday, June 3China is to release the final reading of the HSBC service sector index.The European Central Bank is also to announce its monetary policy decision. The rate announcement will be followed by a post-policy meeting press conference with President Mario Draghi.The U.S. is to release the ADP non-farm payrolls report, which looks at private sector jobs growth, while the ISM is to report on U.S. service sector activity. The country will also release data on the trade balance.Thursday, June 4The Bank of England is to announce its official bank rate.The U.S. is to release the weekly report on initial jobless claims.Friday, June 5The U.S. is to round up the week with the closely watched government report on nonfarm payrolls, the unemployment rate and average earnings. 
