Title: Gold prices weaker in Asia as China GDP slightly better than seen
Date: 20151018
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices fell in Asia on Monday after mixed economic data from China showed lower than expected industrial output, but higher than expected GDP gains. Gold for December delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange fell 0.68% at $1,175.10 a troy ounce. Also on the Comex, silver futures for December delivery dropped 0.96% to $15.960 a troy ounce and copper for December delivery eased 0.17 at $2.398 a pound. Copper prices have been under heavy selling pressure in recent weeks as fears of a China-led global economic slowdown spooked traders and rattled sentiment. The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for almost 40% of world consumption last year. In China, third quarter GDP rose 1.8%, a tad better than the 1.7% gain seen and at an annual pace of 6.9%, also beating the expected 6.8% rise expected. Fixed asset investment rose 10.3%, below the gain of 10.8% seen year-on-year in September and industrial output rose 5.7%, well below the expected 6.0% gain year-on-year in September, while retail sales rose 10.9%, above the 10.8% seen in the same period. The data is closely watched amid fears that a China-led slowdown in global growth could prompt the Fed to delay hiking rates for longer. Earlier, Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda on Monday said the central bank will make necessary adjustments to its aggressive easing while monitoring risks to growth and inflation. "The QQE (quantitative and qualitative monetary easing) has been exerting its intended effects," he said to a meeting of bank staff. He also repeated the BOJ's mantra that it will continue with QQE, aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2%, "as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner." "The BoJ will continue to monitor both upside and downside risks to growth and inflation, and make adjustments as appropriate," he said. The BoJ will release its quarterly report on economic conditions in Japan's nine regions at 1400 JST (0500 GMT). In July, one region upgraded its economic assessment from three months earlier while the remaining eight regions maintained their views, with all saying the economy was recovering. As well in New Zealand, labor costs rose 0.5% as expected in the third quarter. Last week, gold futures halted a five-day win streak on Friday, but still posted healthy gains for the week, amid growing indications the Federal Reserve will hold off on hiking interest rates until next year. A day earlier, gold rallied to $1,191.70, the most since June 22, amid speculation the Fed would not raise rates until sometime next year, with weak economic reports feeding that view. Prices of the precious metal have been well supported in recent sessions amid reduced expectations the Fed will hike interest rates before the years end. A delay in raising interest rates would be seen as bullish for gold, as it decreases the relative cost of holding on to the metal, which doesn't offer investors any similar guaranteed payout. The timing of a Fed rate hike has been a constant source of debate in the markets in recent months. The U.S. central bank has two more scheduled policy meetings before the end of the year, in late-October and mid-December. In the week ahead, the outcome of Thursday’s European Central Bank meeting will also be in focus amid speculation the central bank could ramp up its monetary stimulus program. 
