Title: NYMEX crude oil gains in early Asia as investors eye U.S. supply data
Date: 20150511
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices ticked slightly higher in Asia on Tuesday ahead of U.S. industry data on stockpiles with gasoline in focus as the summer driving season nears in the U.S.The American Petroleum Institute will report supplies of crude, gasoline and distillates at the end of last week later Tuesday to be followed by more closely-watched data from the U.S. Department of Energy on Wednesday.Of particular interest will be any major build in gasoline inventories as refineries gear to produce ahead of expected higher demand in the summer.On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for June delivery rose 0.06% to $59.28 a barrel.Overnight, crude futures inched down on Monday continuing its retreat from five-month highs reached last week, ahead of Tuesday's latest strategy report from OPEC.On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude for June delivery dipped 0.50 or 0.70% to $64.93 a barrel on Monday. OPEC, meanwhile, reportedly indicated that it cannot envision a scenario where crude prices will rise over $100 a barrel in the next decade, according to a report from the Wall Street Journal.In its latest monthly report scheduled to be released on Tuesday, OPEC predicts that crude will be priced at $76 in 2025 under its most optimistic forecast. Reporters from the Wall Street Journal reviewed portions of the draft of the report.On Nov. 27, crude prices plummeted by more than $6 on the session to a four-year low after Saudi Arabia overruled a proposal from OPEC's smaller nations to cut production levels.Crude prices continued to plunge from $67 following the announcement to near $45 a barrel in late-January, as OPEC rolled over its daily production ceiling to 30 million barrels per day. A strategy from OPEC aimed at curbing U.S. shale production, however, has been largely ineffective, as U.S. output remains high.While crude production on U.S. shale fields declined over a period of two consecutive weeks last month, figures released by the Energy Information Administration on May 1 indicated that crude was still being pumped at a level of 9.369 million barrels per day.The level dipped only slightly from crude output on March 20, when production reached a record 9.422 million bpd. The Saudi strategy, in effect, attempted to increase its market share by squeezing U.S. shale production at the lower price.On Sunday, government officials in Riyadh announced that Saudi King Salman will skip a regional summit hosted by U.S. president Barack Obama later this week at Camp David. The snub could underscore a widening rift between the nations over a nuclear deal with Iran.Last week, oil services firm  Baker Hughes  (NYSE:NYSE:BHI) said in its weekly report that the number of oil rigs in the U.S. fell by 11 to 668 marking the 22nd consecutive week of declines. The number of domestic oil rigs in the U.S. remained at its lowest level since September, 2010.The pace of decline, however, continues to slow. In April, the figure fell by roughly 33 rigs per week after dipping by more than 80 on consecutive weeks in February. Last October, The rig count peaked above 1,600, after reaching 1,528 at this point last year. 
