Title: Gold prices gain in Asia as investors look ahead to U.S. CPI data
Date: 20151014
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices held overnight gains in Asia on Thursday as investors looked ahead to U.S. data on consumer prices. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for December delivery rose 0.36% to $1.184 a troy ounce. Silver futures for December delivery gained 0.24% to $16.155 a troy ounce and copper futures for December delivery eased 0.01% to $2.418 a pound. Investors await the release of the Consumer Price Index in the U.S. on Thursday for further indications on whether Federal Reserve could raise short-term interest rates before the end of the year. Analysts expect the headline CPI to fall by 0.2% for the month, but anticipate that the core reading will inch up 0.1% from its level in August. Overnight, gold futures surged more than $10 an ounce on Wednesday reaching near-four month highs, as investors piled into the safe haven asset amid a rash of disappointing economic data around the globe. The surge in gold on Wednesday coincided with a sell-off in the dollar, following the release of dejecting reports on retail sales and producer pricing last month. On Wednesday morning, the U.S. Department of Commerce said retail sales nationwide ticked up 0.1% in September, in line with the low end of consensus estimates. Gasoline sales weighed considerably on the overall reading, plunging by 3.2% for the month. The core reading, minus auto and gas sales, remained flat on a monthly basis, but was still up by 3.8% over the last year. Elsewhere, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics said its Producer Price Index slumped by 0.5% in September, below low estimates of consensus forecasts for a 0.4% monthly loss. On a yearly basis, the data is just as grim. Over the last 12 months, producer prices have fallen by 1.1%, down from a decline of 0.8% in August. China's National Bureau of Statistics reported that its Producer Price Index fell 5.9% in September, marking the 43rd straight month of declines and the biggest drop since the peak of the Financial Crisis. In addition, the bureau said that the Consumer Price Index for September climbed 1.6% on a year-over-year basis, below forecasts for a 1.8% rise. In August, the CPI in China rose by 2% from the previous 12 months. 
