Title: Crude futures continue rally, amid OPEC hints of steady production
Date: 20150602
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude futures rose significantly on Tuesday, as Saudi Arabia offered hints that OPEC will maintain production at its current level during Friday's critical meeting in Vienna. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for July delivery surged 1.13 or 1.88% to 61.33 a barrel. At one point, Texas Long Sweet futures reached a session-high of 61.56, its highest level in two weeks. The rally extends the gains from late last week when WTI crude soared more than 4.5% amid dwindling U.S. stockpiles. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for July delivery gained 0.75 or 1.16% to 65.63 a barrel. The spread between the international and U.S. domestic benchmarks of crude stood at 4.30, down from Monday's level of 4.76. Arriving in Vienna on Monday night, Saudi Arabia oil minister Ali al-Naimi appeared pleased with the current supply-demand balance in the global oil markets. OPEC is widely expected to keep its production ceiling unchanged at above 30 million barrels per day at the meeting later this week. “Demand is picking up. Good! Supply is slowing, right? That is a fact,” Al-Naimi told reporters. In terms of short-term crude prices, Al-Naimi did not make any predictions on where crude is heading for the remainder of 2015. Though crude is down from its peak of $115 last June, they are still up roughly 20% since falling to near $45 a barrel in January. “I don’t have a crystal ball but it is (going) in the right direction,” Al-Naimi added. Energy traders await Wednesday's release of the Energy Information Administration's (EIA) weekly status report for further indications on U.S. inventory levels. For the week ending May 22, the EIA said that U.S. crude stockpiles decreased by 2.8 million barrels for the week that ended May 22, marking the fourth consecutive week of weekly declines. U.S. inventory levels have fallen sharply in recent weeks amid slowing production. Last week, however, U.S. crude production increased to 9.566 million barrels per day up from a total of 9.262 a week earlier. Elsewhere, EUR/USD soared more than 2.2% to an intraday high of 1.1192, its highest one-day move since March 18. Crude prices often move higher when the euro appreciates against the dollar. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, plunged more than 1.6% to an intraday low of 95.78, as investors unwound from their long positions in the dollar. Weak demand in April caused new orders for U.S. factory goods to dip 0.4% for the month, following a 2.2% gain in March.
