Title: Copper edges higher ahead of China factory data
Date: 20150921
Content:
Investing.com - Copper futures edged higher on Monday, as investors turned their attention to an index of manufacturing activity from China due later in the week for a fresh indication on the strength of the global economy. Copper for December delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange inched up 2.3 cents, or 0.96%, to trade at $2.409 a pound during morning hours in London. On Friday, copper plunged 6.6 cents, or 2.69%, after the Federal Reserve’s downbeat assessment of the global economy hurt investor sentiment. China will release a preliminary reading of the Caixin manufacturing purchasing managers’ index for September on Wednesday amid lingering concerns over a China-led global economic slowdown. The index is expected to inch up to 47.5 this month from a final reading of 47.3 a month earlier, which was the lowest level since March 2009. Copper traders consider shifts in the PMI an indicator of China's copper demand, as the industrial metal is widely used by the sector. Copper prices have been under heavy selling pressure in recent weeks as fears of a China-led global economic slowdown spooked traders and rattled sentiment. Prices of the red metal sank to a six-year low of $2.202 on August 24. The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for almost 40% of world consumption last year. Elsewhere in metals trading, gold futures for December delivery tacked on 40 cents, or 0.04%, to trade at $1,138.20 a troy ounce as the Federal Reserve’s decision not to hike interest rates supported demand for the precious metal. Gains were limited as the central bank left open the possibility of a rate hike later this year. Most market experts now expect the Fed will begin raising rates in December. Gold fell to a five-and-a-half year low of $1,072.30 on July 24 amid speculation the Fed will raise interest rates for the first time since 2006 at some point this year. The timing of a Fed rate hike has been a constant source of debate in the markets in recent months. 
