Title: Crude closes slightly higher, ahead of OPEC special meeting in Vienna
Date: 20151020
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude futures closed slightly higher on a volatile, see-saw day of trading, ahead of a special OPEC meeting with a host of non-OPEC members including Russia on Wednesday. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for December delivery traded in a broad range between $45.75 and $46.92 a barrel, before closing at $46.29, up 0.01 or 0.02% on the session. It came one session after crude futures plunged more than 3% on Monday, as weak economic data in China combined with indications of the easing of sanctions in Iran pushed oil prices dramatically lower. Texas Long Sweet futures have fallen approximately 7% since surging above $50 a barrel earlier this month to an 11-week high. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for December wavered between a low of $48.25 and $49.17 a barrel, before settling at $48.70, up 0.09 or 0.19% on the day. Meanwhile, the spread between the international and U.S. domestic benchmarks of crude stood at $2.41, above Monday's level of $2.36 at the close. OPEC, the world's largest oil cartel, will convene a special meeting on Wednesday in Vienna to discuss the current state of the global energy markets. Eight non-OPEC members, including Russia, Mexico and Brazil have been invited to participate in the meeting, Reuters reported. In August, crude futures soared more than 25% in the span of three days, after reports surfaced that Venezuela had worked in conjunction with Russia to schedule an emergency OPEC meeting. Venezuela, which sits on the world's largest oil reserve, has seen its economy tank as oil prices have crashed by more than 40% over the last year, amid a glut of oversupply. Crude proceeds from Venezuela's state-run oil companies account for 50% of its government revenue, 95% of its exports and 25% of its GDP, according to the U.S. Council on Foreign Relations. Venezuela president Nicolas Maduro is hoping to use the meeting to devise a strategy to stabilize the current supply-demand imbalance in oil markets worldwide, the nation's state-run oil company said on Tuesday. Reaction among energy traders, however, has been muted given Venezuela's low standing on the OPEC totem poll. For the most part, energy analysts do not expect the meeting to help ease the pressure on oil prices unless Saudi Arabia becomes willing to slash production considerably. Although OPEC output fell slightly to 31.2 million barrels per day last month, according to a Platts survey, it still remains near record-highs. At the same time, monthly output from Saudi Arabia also fell mildly by 14,000 bpd to 10.26 million. Energy traders will also keep an eye on the American Petroleum Institute's weekly crude inventory report on Tuesday after the close of trading for further indications on supply levels nationwide. Separately, a government report on Wednesday could show that U.S. stockpiles rose by 3.7 million barrels for the week ending on Oct. 16. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, fell more than 0.20% to an intraday low of 94.62 on Tuesday. The index was on pace to halt a four-day winning streak. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. 
