Title: Gold prices gain in Asia on physical buying amid market volatility
Date: 20150816
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices gained in Asia on Monday as investors sought bargins on the physical side amid market volatility on growth prospects in the region. Earlier, Japan said second quarter economic growth fell 0.4%, less than the drop of 0.5% expected and at an annual pace of down 1.6%, also better than the 1.8% decline seen. Gold for December delivery rose 0.22% to $1,115.20 on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange. Also on the Comex, silver for September delivery gained 0.11% to $15.230 a troy ounce. Elsewhere in metals trading, copper for September delivery slumped 0.80% to $2.324 a pound. A combination of concerns about oversupply and expectations of slowing demand from China, which accounts for approximately 40% of global demand, have weighed on the outlook for copper. Last week, gold prices slid slightly lower on Friday as the dollar moved higher on the back of upbeat U.S. economic reports, as investors continued to mull the implications of China’s currency devaluation on the timing of an initial U.S. rate hike. The greenback was boosted after data showing that U.S. producer prices were higher for a third straight month in July, while factory output increased at the fastest rate in eight months. But another report showed that U.S. consumer sentiment dipped slightly in this month. The largely positive data bolstered the outlook for third quarter growth and underlined expectations for a rate hike by the Federal Reserve as early as next month. The dollar had weakened broadly earlier in the week after China devalued its currency in a surprise move on Tuesday, in a bid to shore up growth in the flagging economy. The People’s Bank of China described the move as a “one-off depreciation”, based on a new way of managing the exchange rate that better reflected market forces. Uncertainty over the impact of the devaluation on global inflation expectations and the outlook for growth in China sparked fears that the Fed could keep short-term interest rates on hold for longer. But market volatility eased as the yuan steadied after the PBOC said Thursday there was no reason for the currency to fall further given the country's strong economic fundamentals. 
