Title: Gold halts four-day win streak, as IMF cuts off talks with Greece
Date: 20150611
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold futures ticked down on Thursday ending a four-day winning streak, as Greece and the International Monetary Fund abruptly cut off high-level talks in Brussels practically erasing any progress achieved a day earlier. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for August delivery fell 7.70 or 0.66% to 1,178.90, as traders locked into profits. Gold traded in a tight range of $1,175.00 and $1,187.40 on Thursday. The precious metal likely gained support at 1,162.10 the low from June 5 and was met with resistance at 1,204.70, the high from June 1. An emphatic announcement from the IMF that technical discussions with Greece on a bailout agreement had hit a snag on Thursday morning had little impact on gold prices. While gold slightly pared some of the losses from earlier in the session, the gains were negligible. Speaking to reporters in Washington, IMF spokesman Gerry Rice said there are still key sticking points in the negotiations on pension, tax and financing considerations. "The IMF never leaves the table, the ball is very much in Greece's court," Rice said. Discouraged by the direction of the talks, Greece's bailout team left Brussels after prime minister Alexis Tsipras met with European Commission president Jean-Claude Juncker for roughly two hours on Thursday. Before returning to Greece, Tsipras told reporters that the two sides still remained far apart on a number of critical issues. "We're working in order to bridge the remaining differences and especially the differences on fiscal and financial issues," Tsipras said. "We are working to assure an agreement which will ensure that Greece will recover with social cohesion and viable public debts." On Wednesday evening, the parties accomplished little headway in a meeting between Tsipras, Germany chancellor Angela Merkel and France president Francois Hollande on the sidelines of the EU-CELAC summit. Earlier, reports surfaced that Merkel had been prepared to offer Greece an incremental deal if the cash-strapped nation agreed to some of the austerity measures its international creditors proposed days earlier. The reforms include: a higher imposition of taxes, the issuance of less generous retirement benefits to municipal workers and increased state asset sales, according to reports. Despite Thursday's breakdown in talks, the IMF indicated on Thursday that managing director Christine Lagarde could be present at negotiations next week when a group of euro zone finance ministers meet in Luxembourg. Greece is running out of time before a €1.5 billion obligation is due to the IMF at the end of the month. Elsewhere, a wave of optimistic U.S. economic data pushed the dollar significantly higher. On Thursday morning, the U.S. Department of Commerce said in a monthly report that retail sales last month jumped 1.2%, above an upwardly revised 0.2% in April. Separately, the U.S. Census Bureau said business inventories ticked up by 0.4% in April, above forecasts of a 0.2% gain. Also, the Department of Labor said there were marginal gains in initial jobless claims in the U.S. last week as the figure increased by 3,000 to 279,000. The four-week average for initial claims also remained at extremely low levels in spite of a 3,750 increase to 278,750. In U.S. afternoon trading, the Federal Reserve announced that federal government debt contracted in the first quarter, marking its first decline since 2003. Overall, U.S. debt rose by 2.8% in the quarter, its smallest increase in four years. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, gained 0.63% to 95.19. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Silver for July delivery fell 0.041 or 0.26% to 15.918 a troy ounce. Copper for July delivery plunged 0.079 or 2.86% to 2.668 a pound.
