Title: WTI oil futures turn negative as dollar strengthens after Draghi
Date: 20150305
Content:
Investing.com - West Texas Intermediate oil futures turned negative on Thursday, as the U.S. dollar strengthened broadly following comments made by European Central Bank President Mario Draghi. Draghi confirmed that the ECB will begin purchasing euro zone government bonds on March 9 under its new quantitative easing program. The combined monthly asset purchases will amount to €60 billion per month and is expected to run until September 2016, or until the ECB sees that inflation is on a “sustained path” to its target of close to, but below, 2% in the medium term. The euro weakened after Draghi indicated that the bond purchasing scheme could extend beyond September 2016 “if needed” and that purchases will apply to negative-yielding bonds. The euro fell to the weakest level since September 2003 against the U.S. dollar, while the dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, rallied to fresh 11-year highs. Dollar-denominated oil futures contracts tend to fall when the dollar rises, as this makes oil more expensive for buyers in other currencies. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in April shed 45 cents, or 0.87%, to trade at $51.08 a barrel during U.S. morning hours after hitting an intraday high of $52.39. Elsewhere, On the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for April delivery tacked on 21 cents, or 0.36%, to trade at $60.77 a barrel. London-traded Brent prices found support after Saudi Arabian oil minister Ali al-Naimi said he expects prices to stabilize following a prolonged period of volatility late last year. Brent prices are up nearly 22% from a recent low of $47.68 hit on January 13 as some investors bet that a bottom had been reached after a seven-month long rout. However, prices are still down approximately 47% since June, when futures climbed near $116. Meanwhile, the spread between the Brent and the WTI crude contracts stood at $9.69 a barrel, compared to $9.02 by close of trade on Wednesday. Oil prices have fallen sharply in recent months as the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries resisted calls to cut output, while the U.S. pumped at the fastest pace in more than three decades, creating a glut in global supplies. 
