Title: Gold surges 2%, as soft data fuels sentiments for delayed rate hike
Date: 20150513
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold futures surged nearly 2% on Wednesday reaching a six-week high, as soft U.S. economic data reinforced support for a delayed interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold futures for June delivery soared 24.50 or 2.05% to 1,216.90 a troy ounce. Gold reached a session-high of 1,218.10 in U.S. morning trading, moving above the $1,200 level for the first time this month. Gold futures likely received support at 1,200.70, the low from April 29 and met resistance at 1,224.50, the high from April 6. The precious metal began its upward rise in the U.S. morning trading session following a torrent of worse than expected economic indicators. The U.S. Department of Labor said Wednesday that import prices slid 0.3% in April, following a 0.2% decline a month earlier. On a year-over-year basis, import prices have fallen by more than 10% after the 10th consecutive monthly decline. The figured defied economists' expectations of a 0.3% gain. Meanwhile, U.S. retail sales remained flat in April below economists' forecasts of a 0.2 gain. A reading of department store sales for the month showed a sharp decline of 2.2%, while sales of electronics and appliances fell by 0.4%. Since last April, retail sales have edged up only 0.9%, the lowest level dating back to late 2009. The readings provide signals of modest inflationary pressures, augmenting the positions of the doves on the Federal Open Market Committee, who have taken a cautious approach to the timing of its first interest rate hike in nearly a decade. Last month, the FOMC removed all calendar references to the timing of a potential hike. While it appears increasingly likely that the Fed will wait until September or even December before raising its benchmark Fed Funds Rate from its current level of zero to 0.25%, the FOMC still has not taken a June rate hike off the table. Gold, which is not attached to dividends or interest rates, struggles to compete with high yield bearing assets in periods of rising rates. Elsewhere, the Federal Reserve of Atlanta said in its monthly business report that inflation expectations for May ticked up to 1.9%, up from 1.7% in April, amid rising oil prices. In its forecast last May, the Atlanta Fed predicted that inflation would increase at a slightly slower pace to 1.6%. The poor economic indications on Wednesday weighed heavily on the dollar. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, fell more than 1% to an intra-day low of 93.51 – the lowest level since early-February. By comparison, the index moved above 100 on six consecutive sessions in mid-March and reached as high as 100.27 on April 13. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold are less expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar depreciates. In China, industrial output rose by 5.9% in April, well below yearly GDP growth rates of 7%. It is a poor sign for the Chinese economy when industrial output falls below overall economic growth. China is the world's largest producer of gold and second-largest consumer of the precious metal. Silver for July delivery surged 0.662 or 4.01% to 17.188, its highest level in more than a month. Copper for July delivery remained flat at 2.931 a pound.
