Title: NYMEX crude falls in Asia as API estimates show sharp build
Date: 20151215
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices dipped in Asia on Wednesday as an industry estimate of U.S. stockpiles showed an unexpected gain. The American Petroleum Institute said crude inventories rose 2.3 million barrels, well above the 2.5 million barrels drop seen. Separately, Wednesday's government report could show that crude stockpiles nationwide fell by 2.0 million barrels last week for the week ending on Dec. 11. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for January delivery fell 0.94% to $36.75 a barrel. Overnight, crude futures rallied on Tuesday in spite of a broadly stronger dollar, as investors covered their short positions in anticipation of a likely interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve in Wednesday's session. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent futures for February delivery traded between $37.83 and $39.69 a barrel, before closing at $38.65, up 0.49 or 1.28% on the day. Earlier this week, North Brent sea futures came percentage points away from falling near $36 a barrel to levels not seen in more than a decade. Before Tuesday's rally, both benchmarks had tumbled approximately 15% since OPEC decided to leave its output quota unchanged at a closely-watched meeting in Vienna on December 4. Over the last year, crude futures have plunged more than 40% after OPEC maintained its production ceiling at 30 million barrels per day in an unexpected move in November, 2014. When the Federal Open Market Committee completes its two-day meeting on Wednesday, the U.S. central bank is widely expected to lift short-term interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade. The Federal Funds Rate, the Fed's benchmark rate offered on interbank, overnight loans, has remained at its current level between zero and 0.25% since December, 2008, shortly after the start of the Financial Crisis. Any increase of the targeted range for the Federal Funds Rate is expected to be modest at 25 basis points. An interest rate hike is viewed as bullish for the dollar, as investors pile into the greenback in order to capitalize on higher yields. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates.Investors have had roughly a month to price in a rate hike after the Fed began to sent strong signals it would raise rates following a robust U.S. jobs report in October. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, gained more than 0.50% to an intraday high of 98.34. In early-December, the index surged above 100 to reach a fresh 12-month high. OPEC's decision last November triggered a prolonged battle between Saudi Arabia and high-cost U.S. shale producers for market share. As a result, worldwide markets have been saturated by a glut of supply, depressing oil prices throughout the globe.  
