Title: NYMEX crude gains in Asia as investors eye China stocks, geopolitics
Date: 20150709
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices gained slightly in Asia on friday as investors kept up a focus on China's stock market volatility for demand cues fromt he world's top importer. Energy traders also awaited the release of oil services firm  Baker Hughes  (NYSE:BHI) weekly U.S. rig count on Friday for further indications on supply levels throughout the nation. Last week, the firm said U.S. oil rigs rose by 12 to 640, ending a 29-week streak of weekly draws. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for August gained 0.10% to $52.84 a barrel. Overnight, crude futures surged more than 2% on Thursday halting an extended skid, amid dampened optimism for an Iranian Nuclear Deal, a rally in Chinese equities and further indications on the global supply balance following a slight build in U.S. stockpiles. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude for August delivery reached a session-high of $59.25 a barrel, before settling at $58.66, up 1.62 or 2.84% on Thursday. In China, the Shanghai Composite Index rebounded from Wednesday's collapse gaining more than 5.75% in its strongest one-day move since March, 2009. A wide range of regulations from the People's Bank of China aimed at curtailing selling spurred a rally in large-cap stocks, as the Shanghai stock exchange 50 gained more than 6% on the session. Previously, Chinese equities had crashed more than 25% over the last month erasing approximately $3.5 trillion from stocks in its benchmark index. In Vienna, hopes for a final agreement on an Iranian Nuclear Deal before Friday's deadline faded following equivocal comments from U.S. president Barack Obama on the possibility of an accord. Over the last two weeks, a deadline for comprehensive agreement has been extended on two separate occasions. "He said in the course of the negotiations he's been more optimistic, less optimistic. And he said that the chances at this point are below 50-50," Sen. Richard Durbin (D, Illinois) told CNN. The two sides continue to work out sticking points related to the easing of missile and economic sanctions against the Gulf state. A nuclear deal is viewed as bearish for crude, as Iran reportedly hoards 30 million barrels of crude in its reserves ready for export.An outflow of Iranian oil could depress crude prices in a global market already oversaturated by a glut of oversupply. It is widely believed that Iran will ramp up exports if a plethora of severe economic sanctions are lifted by western powers. In China, the Shanghai Composite Index rebounded from Wednesday's collapse gaining more than 5.75% in its strongest one-day move since March, 2009, amid widespread efforts from the Chinese government to restrict futures trading and prohibit short-selling from large shareholders over the next six months. In April, China surpassed the U.S. as the world's largest importer of oil. On Wednesday, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said U.S. crude inventories increased by 400,000 barrels for the week ending on July 3, above expectations for a 500,000 draw. U.S. crude stockpiles are now at 465.8 million barrels, remaining near levels not seen for this time of year in at least the last 80 years. On Thursday evening, Greece presented a signed copy of an emergency bailout to its troika of creditors three hours before the expiration of a midnight deadline. Under the new proposal, Greece agreed to a strict package of reforms and spending cuts worth up to €13 billion, according to the Guardian. In exchange for the adoption of the austerity measures, the cash-strapped nation could receive approximately €50 billion in short-term funding needed to stave off bankruptcy. The proposal reportedly also includes modest debt-relief for the Mediterranean state, ahead of key repayments owed to the European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund over the next several weeks. European council president Donald Tusk has advocated for the inclusion of debt sustainability as a provision of the agreement. The Greek Parliament is expected to approve the proposal on Friday before prime minister Alexis Tsipras heads to Brussels for an emergency summit over the weekend. Tsipras has also called for a meeting of Syriza party lawmakers at 0600 BST on Friday. Officials from the ECB, IMF and European Commission will now assess the revised plan ahead of the extraordinary summit. During a frenzied week, Germany chancellor Angela Merkel has repeatedly insisted that a haircut or write-off on Greece's substantial debt obligations should remain off the negotiating table. Meanwhile, Tsipras communicated over the phone with U.S. president Barack Obama earlier in the week in an effort to convince Merkel and other top leaders from the euro zone to work feverishly to reach a deal. 
