Title: NYMEX crude rebounds in Asia after China CPI gains less than seen
Date: 20151109
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil staged a minor rebound in Asia on Tuesday as consumer prices rose less than expected in China and raised speculation that the government would do more to stimulate the economy. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for December delivery rose 0.39% to $44.04 a barrel. In China, consumer prices for October rose 1.3% year-on-year, below the 1.5% gain expected, while producer prices eased 5.9%, less than the 5.9% fall seen. Later on Tuesday, the American Petroleum Institute will releases its survey of crude and refined product stockpiles last week, followed on Wednesday by more closely watched figures from the U.S. Department of Energy. Overnight, U.S. crude futures tumbled below $44 a barrel on Monday, as a steady inventory build at the Cushing Oil Hub intensified concerns related to excess oversupply throughout domestic energy markets. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude for January delivery wavered between $47.77 and $49.13 a barrel, before closing at $47.91, down 0.27 or 0.56% on the day. North Sea brent crude futures have also closed lower in four of the last five sessions. After peaking above $52.50 in early-October, brent futures have tumbled by nearly 10% in value. On Monday morning, industry research group Genscape, Inc. reported a 1.8 million build at the Cushing Oil Hub in a four-day period that ended on Nov. 5. Last week, NYMEX oil futures declined by nearly 5% as U.S. crude inventories moved upward for the sixth consecutive week. Cushing is the nation's main delivery point for NYMEX crude oil. Since last summer, crude futures have plummeted by more than 50% from their level above $100 a barrel. Crude prices have also fallen precipitously since OPEC roiled global energy markets last November with a strategic decision to maintain its production ceiling above 30 million barrels per day. Over the weekend, OPEC Secretary General Abdullah al-Badri sent strong indication that its members were close to making the necessary adjustments in order to tackle many of the world's energy concerns. In a statement posted on the International Energy Forum's website, al-Badri noted that a plethora of cancelled projects have provided a "clear demonstration that wide price fluctuations have had a detrimental effect on investments." Al-Badri also said he expects demand in Asia to surge above 45 million bpd by 2040, a spike of more than 15 million bpd from its current level. China is the world's second-largest consumer of crude oil behind the U.S. Crude prices are expected to remain relatively stable until OPEC meet next on Dec. 4. The dollar still remained near seven-month highs. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. 
