Title: Gold prices lower in Asia with China markets shut, Fed minutes eyed
Date: 20151005
Content:
Investing.com - Gold fell in Asia on Tuesday with markets in China shut for holidays and attention on Federal Reserve minutes from the September meeting this week. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for December delivery eased 0.17% to $1,135.70 a troy ounce. Silver for December delivery dropped 0.62% to $15.610 a troy ounce, while copper for December delivery eased 0.47% to $2.347 a pound. Overnight, gold futures inched down on Monday amid a relatively flat dollar, as a wave of disappointing economic indicators exacerbated fears of a global recession.The poor readings come in the wake of a downbeat U.S. national employment report on Friday, which bolstered dovish sentiments for a delayed interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve. The Institute of Supply Management reported on Monday morning that its non-manufacturing purchasing index dipped to 56.9 in September from a level of 59.0 the previous month. It also fell below consensus estimates of a 58.0 reading. Following two consecutive months of stellar reports over the summer, the September report was dragged down by weakness in business activity and new orders. In July, the index surged to a 59.6 level, its strongest reading in 18 years. Separately, there are signs that growth in the services sector is decelerating after the Services Purchasing Managers' Index fell to 55.1 last month, below consensus expectations of a 55.8 reading. Within the report, there were signs of weakness in growth in new orders and production overall. In addition, the daily spending habits of Americans were virtually unchanged last month according to Gallup's U.S. Consumer Spending Measure for September. During the month, American consumers averaged about $88 per day, just below an $89 average in August. On Friday morning, the U.S. Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics said non-farm payrolls for the month of September increased by 142,000, significantly below consensus estimates from analysts of a 203,000 gain. The figure also fell well below low end of estimates of a 180,000 increase. The unemployment rate remained steady at 5.1%, while the labor participation rate declined by 0.2% to 62.4%. The subdued data dampened optimism for an imminent rate hike by the Fed over the next several months. Following the Federal Open Market Committee's September meeting, Fed chair Janet Yellen sent strong indications that the U.S. central bank could raise short-term rates by the end of the year if the economy and labor market continued to show improvement. An interest rate hike is viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. 
