Title: Chinese Pork Prices Fell Amid Increased Stock
Date: 20150213
Content:
By Shuan Sim -  As prices for cheaper dried pork products in China have fallen ahead of Chinese New Year, consumers there looking to buy them would be prudent to do so quickly, as analysts have predicted that pork prices will increase later this year. The demand for pork for the festive season means that prices usually spike, but customers who are tightening their expenses, coupled with the government’s efforts to stabilize its inventory from the previous years of under-supply by increasing production, have instead caused the prices to dip. According to official data, pork prices fell marginally to 24.8 yuan ($3.97) per kilogram in January from 24.9 yuan ($3.99) per kilogram in December. The falling prices reflected the country’s slowing demand and government’s efforts to stabilize pork prices that were spiraling prior to 2011. "Usually corporate gifts include pork products like dried meat but that has declined significantly this year," said Pan Chenjun, a senior analyst at Rabobank, according to Reuters. Pork prices have been falling since the government intervened to prevent it from skyrocketing in 2011, caused by an undersupply of pork stocks. Beijing has stemmed the import of foreign pork, choosing to boost domestic production instead, according to Reuters, and has caused global prices to fall, as well. Cheaper feed costs and corn prices have also contributed to lower costs of production, leading to 11 percent increased local stocks since 2011, according to meat industry news site Global Meat News. However, pork prices are expected to rebound soon, as China has leveled off its pork production, reported the Wall Street Journal. Analyst group Mintec predicted that pork prices will rise 2 percent later in 2015, according to Global Meat News. The Chinese New Year, also known as Lunar New Year, had traditionally been a period of increased prices in China as families there rush to stock up on festive items such as dried pork and fireworks in time for the holiday. Government price data showed that consumer prices rose only 0.8 percent in January; the country’s slowest growth in five years, according to the Wall Street Journal.
