Title: Gold tumbles nearly 1%, amid subdued China GDP for the third quarter
Date: 20151019
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold futures tumbled by nearly 1% on Monday falling precipitously from three-month highs reached late last week, after quarterly GDP growth in China slumped below 7% for the first time since the height of the Financial Crisis. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for December delivery traded in a tight range between $1,169.00 and $1,178.00, before settling at $1,171.90, down 11.50 or 0.97% on the session. Last week, the precious metal surged to a fresh three-month high at $1,189.00 an ounce during a five-day winning streak. Despite Monday's sell-off, gold is still up approximately 3% over the last month of trading. Gold likely gained support at $1,151.60, the low from October 9 and was met with resistance at $1,189.00, the high from Oct. 14. On Monday, China's National Bureau of Statistics reported that GDP growth grew at 6.9% for the third quarter, decelerating at the slowest pace in more than six years. It marks the slowest period of growth in the world's second-largest economy since the first quarter of 2009 when Chinese GDP rose by 6.2%. Analysts expected third quarter GDP in China to rise by 6.8% for the three-month period ending in September. The dismal reading could add pressure on the People's Bank of China to introduce fresh stimulus measures following its shocking devaluation of the yuan in August. The subdued growth also exacerbates concerns that the PBOC could adjust its benchmark interest rate, while pushing lending rates down even further. Separately, the National Bureau of Statistics said factory output increased by 5.7% in September below forecasts for a 6% gain. Chinese fixed-asset investments, meanwhile, rose by 10.3%, sharply under estimates of a 10.8% gain. The downbeat economic indicators on Monday raise fears that China's annual GDP could fall under 7% for the first time in more than a decade. China is the world's largest producer of gold and the world's second-largest consumer of the precious metal behind India. Investors also await an appearance by Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen on Tuesday at a U.S. Department of Labor ceremony for further indications on whether the U.S. central bank could raise short-term interest rates at some point before the end of the year. A host of Federal Reserve officials are scheduled to speak this week before the Federal Open Market Committee begins its two-day October meeting on Oct. 28. The FOMC is widely expected to hold its benchmark Federal Funds Rate at its current near-zero level for the 56th consecutive meeting. Yellen has indicated that the FOMC will take a "data-driven approach," to its decision as it weighs whether to raise the Federal Funds Rate for the first time in nearly a decade. The Labor Department, meanwhile, will release two additional U.S. national employment reports before the FOMC's December meeting, providing the Fed with enough data on the state of the U.S. labor market to guide their decision. A rate hike is viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, gained more than 0.2% on Monday to an intraday high of 95.05. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Silver for December delivery fell 0.269 or 1.67% to 15.845 an ounce. Copper for December delivery plunged 0.035 or 1.49% to 2.368 a pound. China is the world's largest consumer of copper, accounting for more than 40% of the world's total consumption.
