Title: Gold plunges to three-month low as concerns in Greece, China weigh
Date: 20150707
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold futures plummeted to a three-month low amid a stronger dollar, as widespread concerns related to the Greek Debt crisis and the plunging Chinese equities market continued to weigh. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for August delivery tumbled to an intraday low of 1,146.80, before paring some of its losses near the end of the session. In U.S. afternoon trading, gold traded at 1,155.40, down 11.20 or 0.96%. At one point, gold neared its 2015 low of 1,142.40 on March 17 when the precious metal slid amid speculation of a potential interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve. Gold futures likely gained support at 1,142.40 the low on March 17 and was met with resistance at 1,181.60, the high from June 22. In Brussels, optimism for an imminent deal in Greek debt negotiations quickly faded as European creditors maintained a hard line with Athens leaders in an unproductive session. Less than 24 hours after being sworn in as Greek finance minister on Monday evening, Euclid Tsakalatos reportedly rankled a number of leaders from the euro zone by arriving in Belgium unprepared for the high-level discussions. The leaders expected to receive a revised outline from Greece on a comprehensive cash-for-reforms deal that could help the Mediterranean state stave off bankruptcy following Sunday's landmark referendum. Instead, Greek officials reportedly arrived at the emergency summit without any definitive propositions. "The absence of a concrete proposal by the Greece government doesn't help this evening's euro zone leaders' meeting," Malta finance minister Joseph Muscat said on his Twitter (NYSE:TWTR) account. Greece could lose complete access to emergency aid from the European Central Bank if it is unable to meet a €3.5 billion obligation on July 20. Without receiving liquidity assistance from the ECB, banks throughout the nation could become insolvent triggering a Greek exit from the euro. On Tuesday, EUR/USD fell more than 0.8% to an intraday low of 1.0917, its lowest level in more than a month. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. In China, the Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.3% amid a record decline in margin speculation. Over the last month, the index is down more than 25% as the world's second-largest economy deals with its slowest growth in more than a decade. Although the People's Bank of China has looked to jumpstart equities by cutting its benchmark interest rate, easing regulations on margin trading and lowering the amounts Chinese banks must hold on reserves, the stimulus measures have yet to create a rally. China is the world's largest producer of gold and the second-largest consumer behind India. Silver for September delivery fell 0.577 or 3.69% to 15.058 an ounce. Copper for September delivery dipped 0.069 or 2.75% to 2.457 a pound.
