Title: Crude futures extend slump, ahead of OPEC meeting in Vienna
Date: 20150604
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude futures plunged on Thursday extending losses from one session earlier, as energy traders await Friday's critical OPEC meeting in Vienna for further indications on supply levels in the global markets. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for July delivery fell 1.64 or 2.74% to $58.00 a barrel, closing under $60 a barrel for the second consecutive day. Crude futures are down nearly 6% since peaking at above $61.50 earlier this week. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for July delivery dipped 1.75 or 2.75% to 62.05 a barrel, closing below $64 a barrel for the second straight session. Brent futures are also approximately 6% lower since peaking at near $66 a barrel early this week. Brent traded in a broad range between $61.91 and $64.06 on Thursday. The spread between the international and U.S. domestic benchmarks of crude stood at 4.05, down from Wednesday's level of 4.19. When OPEC meets on Friday in Austria, the world's largest oil cartel is widely expected to keep its production ceiling above 30 million barrels per day in spite of a continuing glut of oversupply in the market. Last month, OPEC pumped 31.58 million bpd, the highest level in four years. Industry observers are likely to keep a close eye on any market-moving comments from Iraq and Iran, two Gulf nations expected to ramp up exports in the coming months. Bijan Namdar Zanganeh, Iran's oil minister told reporters this week in Vienna, that he expects his nation's exports to surge later this summer if economic sanctions are lifted by Western powers. Iranian exports could increase to 1.7 million bpd from a current level 1.0 million within 12 months of the easing of sanctions, according to Facts Global Energy an energy consulting firm. Iran reportedly has 30 million barrels of crude stored in offshore tankers ready for export. Iraqi oil minister Abdel Abdul Mahdi, meanwhile, said earlier this week in Vienna that his nation will boost exports by roughly 100,000 bpd in June, up from a record level of 3.145 million bpd last month. Though Iraqi oil fields have come under siege in recent weeks by attacks from the Islamic State, Abdul Mahdi said its most productive areas have been spared. Smaller OPEC nations such as Venezuela, Libya and Angola are expected to argue for production cuts in an effort to bolster prices. Angola, which derives nearly 98% of its revenues from oil, argued this week that $80 a barrel might be the right price for crude. Separately, Venezuelan oil minister Asdrubal Chavez said he has been working on establishing a technical group of leaders between OPEC and non-OPEC leaders to form a better consensus on issues dominating the market. Much like the aforementioned African nations, Venezuela benefits from higher crude prices. The nations, though, are expected to be overruled by Saudi Arabia, which is looking to depress crude prices to force U.S. shale producers to curb output. Traders continue to digest dwindling U.S. stockpile figures, after the Energy Information Administration (EIA) said inventory levels decreased by 1.9 million barrels for the week ending May 29, in line with forecasts of a 2.0 million draw. U.S. crude stockpiles still remain at 477.4 million barrels, its highest level at this time of year in at least 80 years. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback, versus a basket of six other major currencies, gained 0.10% to 95.44.
