Title: Crude oil futures turn higher on bets for U.S. supply drop
Date: 20150708
Content:
Investing.com - West Texas Intermediate oil futures erased losses on Wednesday, amid speculation weekly supply data due later in the session will show U.S. crude inventories fell at a faster pace than expected last week. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for August delivery rose 45 cents, or 0.85%, to trade at $52.78 a barrel during U.S. morning hours, turning higher after hitting a session low of $51.48. On Tuesday, New York-traded oil prices tumbled to $50.58, the weakest level since April 6, before ending at $52.33, down 20 cents, as concerns over Greece's debt crisis and steep losses on Chinese stock markets weighed. Wednesday's government report was expected to show that U.S. crude oil stockpiles fell by 0.7 million barrels last week, while gasoline stockpiles were forecast to decline by 0.3 million barrels. After markets closed Tuesday, the American Petroleum Institute, an industry group, said that U.S. crude inventories fell by 958,000 barrels in the week ended July 3, compared to expectations for a drop of 1.1 million. U.S. oil futures plunged last week after  Baker Hughes  (NYSE:BHI) reported that the number of domestic rigs drilling for oil rose by 12 to 640 last week, snapping 29 straight weeks of declines. Elsewhere, on the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for August delivery tacked on 64 cents, or 1.13%, to trade at $57.49 a barrel. Brent fell to a daily low of $55.88 earlier. A day earlier, London-traded Brent hit $55.10, a level not seen since March 25, before closing at $56.85, up 31 cents, or 0.55%. The spread between the Brent and the WTI crude contracts stood at $4.71 a barrel, compared to $4.52 by close of trade on Tuesday. Market sentiment was boosted by fresh hopes for a solution to Greece's debt crisis after euro zone officials gave the country until Thursday to present new proposals to secure a deal with creditors. The Greek government was to present a formal application later Wednesday for a new rescue package from the European Stability Mechanism, the euro zone’s permanent bailout fund. Oil prices sold off earlier as shares in China plunged further despite fresh efforts by the government to calm the market. The Shanghai Composite tumbled nearly 6% in volatile trade on Wednesday after having fallen as much as 8% shortly after the open with trading in more than 500 companies listed in Shenzhen and Shanghai suspended. The index is down almost 37% over the past four weeks. Market players are concerned that the plunge in the stock market could spread to other parts of the Chinese economy, triggering fears that the Asian nation's demand for oil will decline. China is the world's second largest oil consumer after the U.S. and has been the engine of strengthening demand. Oil traders were also eyeing nuclear talks between the West and Iran, which could push millions of barrels of crude into the oversupplied world market. Tehran wants to double oil exports to more than two million barrels a day if a deal is reached and sanctions are lifted, a top Iranian official said Monday. Global oil production is outpacing demand following a boom in U.S. shale oil production and after a decision by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries last year not to cut production. 
