Title: NYMEX crude gains in Asia as Chinese trade data may bring easier policy
Date: 20151108
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices rebounded in Asia on Monday in response to last week's ahrp fall in the U.S. with disappointing Chinese trade data shrugged off for now. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in December rose 0.86% to $44.44 a barrel. On Sunday, China said the October trade surplus came in at $61.64 billion, a tad more than $60.34 billion in September, with exports down 6.9% as imports slumped 18.8%. October's trade surplus came in at a new monthly record due to a steeper drop in imports rather than any improvement in exports. The strong trade surplus partially explained a surprise rise in China's foreign exchange reservesannounced on Saturday. China's foreign-exchange reserves rose by $11.387 billion in October from September, the first monthly increase in six months, suggesting the wave of capital outflows that's spooked markets may be abating. While the PBOC may be happy with the surplus, which helps offset capital outflows and ease yuan depreciation pressure, both exports and imports fell more than expected, pointing to weak demand at home and abroad. Imports have now dropped for 12 straight months, and have fallen by more than 10% for three consecutive months since the PBOC's yuan devaluation in early August which eroded the currency's purchasing power. Last week, oil prices fell to seven-day lows on Friday, as a broadly stronger U.S. dollar and ongoing concerns over a global supply glut weighed. On the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for December delivery shed 56 cents, or 1.17%, to close the week at $47.42 a barrel after falling earlier to a session low of $47.27, the weakest level since October 28. The U.S. dollar rallied to seven-month highs against a basket of six other major currencies after data showing the U.S. economy created more jobs than expected in October bolstered expectations for a rate hike next month. The Labor Department reported that the U.S. economy added 271,000 jobs last month, the largest increase since December and easily surpassing expectations of 180,000. The unemployment rate inched down to 5.0%, the lowest since April 2008. The dollar index was up 1.23% to 99.29 in late trade, the strongest level since April 15. The index ended the week with gains of 2.31%. Dollar-priced commodities become more expensive to investors holding other currencies when the greenback gains. Market players have been trying to gauge when the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade after recent economic reports offered a mixed picture of the U.S. economy. The timing of a Fed rate hike has been a constant source of debate in the markets in recent months. Nymex oil futures held on to losses after industry research group  Baker Hughes  (N:N:BHI) said late Friday that the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. decreased by 6 last week to 572, the tenth straight weekly decline and the lowest level since June 2010. Over the prior ten weeks, drillers in the U.S. have cut 103 rigs. A lower U.S. rig count is usually a bullish sign for oil as it signals potentially lower production in the future. The oil market has been volatile in recent months amid uncertainty about how quickly the global glut of crude is set to shrink. Global oil production is outpacing demand following a boom in U.S. shale oil production and after a decision by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries last year not to cut production. Despite the tighter outlook for North America, output remains robust in other countries. Saudi Arabia and other Gulf OPEC members have indicated they will continue to stick to their policy of defending market share by keeping production high. Oil prices have lost nearly 60% since last summer as lingering concerns over a glut in world markets drove down prices. In the week ahead, investors will be looking ahead to Friday’s U.S. data on retail sales, producer prices and consumer sentiment for fresh indications on the likelihood of a December rate hike. Tuesday’s inflation figures from China will also be in focus, along with Friday’s preliminary data on economic growth in the euro area. 
