Title: Spread between brent and WTI crude widens amid slower supply growth
Date: 20150311
Content:
Investing.com -- The spread between the international and U.S. benchmarks of oil futures widened on Wednesday, following slower supply growth domestically and expectations that Opec will keep global supply levels constant through its meeting in June.      On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude oil for April delivery fell 1.12% to $47.75 a barrel, marking the second consecutive day U.S. oil futures dropped more than 1%.  On the InterContinental Exchange (ICE), April deliveries of brent crude oil rose 0.98% or 0.56 to $57.43 a barrel, slightly reversing sharp losses on Tuesday when brent fell nearly dropped 4%.   The U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said crude oil inventories increased by 4.5 million barrels last week, in comparison with expectations of a 4.4 million increase. A week earlier, however, crude oil inventories nationwide grew by 10.3 million barrels – its largest weekly increase since 2002. For the week of Feb. 19, the EIA found that WTI crude inventories rose by 8.4 million barrels. The modest rise might ease concerns that the Cushing Oil Hub in Oklahoma could reach full capacity over the next two months. While crude oil inventories nationwide have peaked at 448.9 million barrels, the most in 80 years, capacity at Cushing is approximately at a level of 65%. If inventories grow at its current rate, Cushing could reach full capacity by June. Previous estimates forecasted that Cushing could reach a 100% level before the end of April. In the U.S. oil is being pumped at its fastest rate in more than three decades, even as the rig count declines exponentially. While WTI crude futures declined on Wednesday, brent crude internationally rose slightly – increasing the spread between the two benchmarks. In U.S. afternoon trading the spread reached 9.68, up from 8.10 on Tuesday. Earlier last week, the spread peaked at 13.00. Brent crude futures increased following bearish comments made by Kuwait's OPEC governor Nawal Al-Fuzaia on Tuesday. At Opec's next meeting on June 5, Al-Fuzaia said he expects the cartel to keep oil production at 30 million barrels a day while global supply and demand remains the same.  "I think so because there is less than two months, removing weekend and summer time, before the next OPEC meeting," Al-Fuzaia said. "I don't think there would be a big change in the oil market supply or demand in this time.”   
