Title: NYMEX crude gains after scope to ease on China price data, API ahead
Date: 20150608
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices gained in Asia on Tuesday with investors noting the scope for China to ease monetary policy further after weak price data and ahead of U.S. supply data.Chinese consumer prices fell 0.2% in May, weaker than the flat reading expected, while producer prices edged down 4.6%, also weaker than the 4.5% decline seen.The data has been volatile of late and thus waning in importance as to market direction, but the People's Bank of China will take note with some policy reaction possible.China's National Bureau of Statistics said falling vegetable and egg prices dragged the CPI down by 0.39 percentage points.Later Tuesday the American Petroleum Institute will release its estimates of U.S. crude and refined product stockpiles as of last week, with more closely watched figures on the same data due from the U.S. Department of Energy on Wednesday.Other weekly data ahead includes the rig count by oil services firm  Baker Hughes  (NYSE:NYSE:BHI). Last Friday, the company said that the number of oil rigs nationwide fell by four on the week to 642, the lowest level since August, 2010.It marked the 26th consecutive week of weekly rig declines. Though U.S. shale producers have been forced to slash drilling due to the lower price of crude, they have still maintained high production levels by keeping their more efficient rigs online.On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for July delivery rosse 0.54% to $58.46 a barrel.Overnight, crude futures fell sharply on Monday as energy traders continued to react to the long-term ramifications of OPEC's decision last Friday to keep its production ceiling above 30 million barrels per day.On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude for July delivery dipped 0.69 or 1.07% to $62.62 on Monday, falling for the fourth time in five sessions.At a semi-annual meeting of its members on Friday in Vienna, OPEC decided to maintain production at its current level – a move which caused crude to spike roughly 1.5% on the session. While in Vienna, Iran oil minister Bijan Namdar Zanganeh said he is optimistic that his nation could double production from its current level of 3 million bpd within the next five years if it can increase its crude exports exponentially.Moving forward, energy traders will focus intently on Iranian exports as the nation works toward completing a comprehensive nuclear deal with Western powers later this month. Once a deal is reached, Iranian officials said at the meeting that it could double exports with six months of the removal of longstanding economic sanctions. An outflow of Iranian oil into the global markets is considered to be bearish for crude prices, which has been weighed down by a glut of oversupply in recent months.Traders will also monitor a bid by Indonesia to return to OPEC.Indonesia, which suspended OPEC membership in 2008 when its import level exceeded its amount of crude exports, announced its intention to pursue full membership in the cartel at the meeting. The inclusion of the Southeast Asian emerging nation could help level the global supply-demand balance. Indonesia consumes around 1.5 million barrels of crude per day and is seeking supply agreements with OPEC members in order to import more oil, according to reports.Also on Monday, crude prices slid amid disappointing import and export data in China.In May, the Asian nation's trade surplus widened to $59.5 billion, up from $34.2 billion a month earlier. Exports fell by 2.5% on a year-over-year basis, while imports declined by more than 17%.In terms of crude, Chinese imports fell to 5.47 million bpd a decline of 26% on a year-over-year basis. In April, China became the world's largest importer of crude. Chinese imports fell sharply last month, as the nation's state-owned oil company drew from its enormous stockpiles while its tankers off the Strait of Malacca continued to horde cheaper crude. 
