Title: NYMEX crude weaker in early Asia as Lunar New Year gears up
Date: 20150217
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices fell in early Asia on Wednesday in holiday-thinned trade for the Lunar New Year and as closely watched data on U.S. supplies may be further delayed.On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in April fell 0.20% to trade at $53.87 a barrel.A snow storm closed U.S. Federal government offices in Washington on Tuesday. That may further delay data from industry group, the American Petroleum Institute, on U.S. supplies of crude and refined products that is normally released on Tuesday.As well, more closely watched data from the U.S. Department of Energy has also been delayed from its normal Wednesday release.Overnight, crude oil futures erased earlier gains to trade sharply lower on Tuesday, with oil prices remaining a source of market volatility.Industry research group Baker Hughes (NYSE:BHI) said that the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. fell by 84 last week to 1,056, the lowest since August 2011.The number of oil rigs has declined in 15 of the last 18 weeks since hitting an all-time high of 1,609 in mid-October, a clear sign of the pressure that tumbling prices have put on oil producers.New York-traded oil futures are up almost 16% over the past three weeks, however, prices are still down approximately 50% from a recent peak of $107.50 hit in June.Elsewhere, on the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for April delivery sank 80 cents, or 1.29%, to trade at $60.61 a barrel on Tuesday.London-traded Brent prices have sky-rocketed nearly 22% over the past three weeks. However, prices are still down approximately 45% since June, when futures climbed near $116.Oil prices have fallen sharply in recent months as the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries resisted calls to cut output, while the U.S. pumped at the fastest pace in more than three decades, creating a glut in global supplies.Meanwhile, market sentiment remained subdued after talks between Greece and euro zone finance ministers broke down on Monday, fuelling concerns over the country's future in the single currency region.Greece’s current €240 billion bailout is due to expire at the end of the month and the new Greek government does not want it extended. Athens rejected a proposed six-month extension of the bailout on Monday, calling it "unacceptable".Athens has until Friday to request an extension otherwise its bailout will expire on February 28 and the country will run out of money.The clash between Greece and its creditors has sparked fears that it could trigger the country’s exit from the euro zone. 
