Title: Gold rallies from Tuesday's sell-off, ahead of release of Fed minutes
Date: 20150708
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold rallied sharply ahead of the release of the Federal Open Market Committee's June meeting on Wednesday afternoon, as widespread crises in China and Greece remained in focus. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for August delivery gained 10.40 or 0.90% to 1,163.00 a troy ounce. At one point, gold fell to a four-month low at 1,146.20 before rising to a daily-high of 1,163.70. One day earlier, the precious metal plunged more than 1.75% as optimism for an imminent deal between Greece and its troika of creditors faded. Since peaking above $1,230 in mid-May, gold futures are down by more than 5.25%. In Athens, newly appointed Greek finance minister Euclid Tsakalotos outlined a comprehensive set of reforms the nation would adhere to in exchange for a three-year bailout through the European Stability Mechanism. The proposal includes: tax-related reforms, pension-related measures and potential debt relief. Tsakalotos is set to explain the proposal in greater detail on Thursday. "Greece welcomes an opportunity to explore potential measures to be taken so that its official sector related debt becomes both sustainable and viable over the long term," Tsakalotos said. Tsakalotos indicated that the release will provide officials from the European Central Bank, International Monetary Fund and European Commission with ample time to review the proposal before Sunday's emergency summit between Greece and its creditors in Brussels. While the meeting is viewed by many European officials as Greece's last opportunity to remain in the euro, it will come eight days before the cash-strapped nation owes a loan repayment of €3.5 billion to the ECB. "The stark reality is that we have only five days left," European Council president Donald Tusk said in a news conference on Tuesday night. "Until now I have avoided talking about deadlines, but tonight I have to say loud and clear that the final deadline ends this week." Gold is viewed as a safe-haven for investors in periods of severe economic instability. Metal traders await the release of the FOMC's minutes from its June meeting in U.S. afternoon trading for more indications on the timing of the Fed's first interest rate hike in more than a decade. In mid-June, Fed chair Janet Yellen declined to issue any explicit statements on when the U.S. central bank could raise its benchmark Federal Funds Rate. Still, 10 members of the FOMC built in two quarter-point interest rate hikes for the remainder of 2015 during the June meeting, sending the clearest indication in months that the Fed could raise rates this year. In China, the Shanghai Composite Index tumbled 5.9% to 3,507.19, as trading was halted on more than 1,330 companies amid further efforts from the People's Bank of China to stimulate Chinese equities markets. Over the last month, Chinese stocks have plunged roughly 30% amid the slowest economic growth in the nation in more than a decade. China is the world's largest producer of gold and the second-largest consumer behind India. Silver for September delivery gained 0.214 or 1.43% to 15.183 an ounce. Copper for September delivery rose 0.047 or 1.94% to 2.494 a pound.
