Title: Gold dips in Asia on Fed move up, pace of more hikes in focus
Date: 20151216
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices eased in Asia on Thursday with the pace of future Federal REserve rate hikes now the focus after chief Janet Yellen suggested a "gradual path forward. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for February delivery fell 0.48% to $1,067.90 a troy ounce. Silver futures for March delivery eased 0.39% to $14.110 a troy ounce, while copper futures fell 0.06% to $2.070 a pound. Overnight, the Federal Reserve, as expected, voted to raise the target range of its benchmark Federal Funds Rate on Wednesday, ending a zero interest rate policy implemented by the U.S. central bank shortly after the Financial Crisis aimed at rescuing the world's largest economy from arguably its biggest catastrophe in more than 70 years. In a unanimous decision, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), lifted the Fed Funds Rate by 25 basis points to a range between 0.25 and 0.50%. Before Wednesday's decision, the FOMC had held short-term interest rates at near zero levels for 56 consecutive meetings, a streak which dated back to December, 2008. The Federal Funds Rate is the rate offered by institutions on overnight, interbank loans held at the Fed. A rate-hike is widely viewed as bearish for gold, which is not attached to interest rates or dividends and struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets. Throughout the year, major fluctuations in gold have been linked with hints from the Fed on the timing of a rate hike. On March 19, gold surged 1.54%, a day after dovish comments from Fed chair Janet Yellen at the FOMC's March monetary policy meeting. While the FOMC removed patience language from its monetary policy statement at the time, Yellen added at a press conference that a rate hike was not imminent at the FOMC's next meeting in April. Then, on June 18, the precious metal soared more than 2.1% after the FOMC declined to issue explicit wording on the timing of lift-off, delaying a hike even further. By the same token, gold plummeted by more than 1.5% after a robust U.S. jobs report for October paved the way for the Fed to raise rates. 
