Title: Gold prices sharply weaker in Asia as Fed signals December rate hike
Date: 20151028
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices fell sharply in Asia on Thursday as the Federal Reserve signaled a higher expectation of an interest rate hike at the end of the year. On Wednesday, the Fed kept interest rates unchanged on Wednesday and in a direct reference to its next policy meeting put a December rate hike firmly in play. "In determining whether it will be appropriate to raise the target range at its next meeting, the committee will assess progress - both realized and expected - toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation," the Fed said in a statement after its latest two-day policy meeting. The central bank also downplayed recent global financial market turmoil and said the U.S. labor market was still healing despite a slower pace of job growth. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for December delivery fell 1.22% to $1,161.80 a troy ounce, while silver futures eased 1.95% to $15.975 a troy ounce. Copper for December delivery dipped 0.74% to to $2.348 a pound. Overnight, gold futures soared more than 1%, as investors priced in the release of a dovish monetary policy statement from the Federal Reserve on Wednesday afternoon rife with indications of a delayed interest rate hike. In September, the FOMC voted 9-1 to leave its benchmark Federal Funds Rate at its current level between zero and 0.25%. While the FOMC noted that household spending and business fixed investment had increased moderately over the previous two months, it expressed concern that a slowdown in the global economy had placed significant downward pressure on inflation. In its statement, the Fed emphasized that it will monitor developments abroad and inflation changes closely as it weighs its decision. The FOMC downgraded its median inflation forecasts at the meeting to 0.3% for the end of 2015, while lowering inflation expectations for the end of next year to 1.7%. The Fed now expects that inflation will not reach its 2.0% target until 2018. In the weeks since, FOMC members appear split on whether the temporary headwinds restraining inflation from a stronger dollar and lower energy prices will recede enough to justify a rate hike. 
