Title: Gold prices weaker in Asia on Fed views, China trade data mixed
Date: 20151207
Content:
Investing.com - Gold fell, but copper gained as Chinese trade data was mixed in November though imports fell less than expected. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for February delivery fell 0.50% to $1,069.80 a troy ounce. Silver futures for March delivery lost 0.85% to 14.210 a troy ounce, while copper futures gained 0.25% to $2.050 a pound. In China, key trade data for November showed a 6.8% drop in exports, more than the 5.0% decline seen, and imports down 8.7%, less than the 12.6% drop expected, The overall surplus came in at $54.10 billion, compared to an expected $63.30 billion. Earlier, in Japan, bank lending rose 2.3% as expected year-on-year in November, while the current account for October came in at a surplus of ¥1.458 trillion, slightly narrower than the expected ¥1.659 trillion surplus. Also in Japan, third quarter GDP surged 1.0% year-on-year compared to a 0.1% gain seen and rose 0.3% quarter-on-quarter compared to a 0.1% gain expected. In Australia, the NAB business confidence survey rose to 5 in November from 2 in the previous month, while the business survey rose to 10 from 9. "This is basically another strong result for the NAB survey which, in conjunction with signs of improvement in the labor market, means we can put more faith in the building non-mining sector recovery," NAB chief economist Alan Oster said. Overnight, gold fell from three-week highs on Monday amid a resurgent dollar, as investors continued to brace for the increased likelihood that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates for the first time in nine years when it meets next week. Investors continued to digest data from Friday's relatively optimistic U.S. jobs report, which showed that the U.S. labor market added 211,000 nonfarm payrolls in November, above consensus estimates for gains of 190,000. It followed a robust report a month earlier, placing a December rate hike by the Fed squarely on the table. The fairly positive report followed a relatively dovish speech by Janet Yellen last week at the Economic Club of Washington, where the Fed chair sent further indications that the U.S. economy has improved enough in recent weeks to justify a December interest rate hike. Citing projections of moderate economic growth on a short-term basis, Yellen noted that improved conditions in the economy could be sufficient enough to generate additional increases in employment, further reductions in labor market slack and a rise toward the Fed's 2% inflation target. The Core PCE Index, the Fed's preferred gauge of inflation, has remained under its targeted goal of 2% for every month over the last three years. The Federal Funds Rate, the rate which banks loan to each on overnight deposits at the Fed, has remained at record-lows between zero and 0.25% for nearly seven years since December, 2008. Yellen also warned of the perils of holding rates at historically low levels by continuing to delay the start of policy normalization. Further delays could force the Fed to end up having to "tighten policy relatively abruptly" in order to keep the economy from overheating, Yellen added. An abrupt tightening, according to the Fed chair, could disrupt financial markets enough to potentially encourage excessive risk taking and even inadvertently push the economy into recession. A rate hike is viewed as bearish for gold, which is not attached to interest rates and struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets. 
