Title: Paris Attacks Push Oil, Gold Prices Up
Date: 20151116
Content:
By Avaneesh Pandey -  Even as global stocks, including U.S. futures, fell during early trade Monday, gold and oil prices were pushed higher, primarily by investors seeking refuge in safe-haven assets following last week’s deadly attacks in Paris. Traders move into assets perceived as less risky in times of uncertainty and turmoil. Spot gold prices rose over 1.2 percent to $1,096.72 an ounce by 1:45 a.m. EST, and U.S. gold futures also rose more than 1 percent. Gold prices had sunk 0.5 percent last week -- amid speculation of a rate hike in the U.S. that would have boosted the dollar -- dropping to $1,074.25 Thursday, the lowest since February 2010. However, while the safe-haven buying following the Paris attacks is likely to boost short-term prices of the metal, it is unlikely to be sustained in the long term, and would remain limited by expectations of a December rate hike by the U.S. Federal Reserve. “It’s a knee-jerk reaction to the tragic events over the weekend,” Victor Thianpiriya, a Singapore-based analyst at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., told Bloomberg. “Ultimately, I don’t think these gains will be sustained.” Demand for other precious metals also increased Monday, with spot prices of silver, platinum and palladium rising by more than 1 percent. Meanwhile, prices of oil -- which has been trading near six-year lows as a global glut takes its toll -- also rose Monday, halting the recent declining trend. According to Reuters, front-month U.S. crude futures were up 19 cents from their last close, at $40.93 a barrel. Internationally traded Brent also rose 33 cents Monday, and was trading at $44.80 a barrel. According to a report released last week by the International Energy Agency, global oil stockpiles have swollen to a record of almost 3 billion barrels -- particularly because of strong production in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) bloc -- creating a “massive cushion.” Much like the uptick in gold prices, the rise in oil prices is expected to be short-lived. “We may see some upside in oil prices, but we are not going to see a big rally,” Daniel Ang, an analyst with Phillip Futures Ltd., told the Wall Street Journal Monday.
