Title: Crude retreats from 5-month high amid strong dollar, Iran supply fears
Date: 20150507
Content:
Investing.com -- U.S. crude futures fell sharply on Thursday amid a stronger dollar, one day after surging to a five-month high. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for June delivery plunged 1.96 or 3.20% to $58.98 a barrel, as traders locked in profits from earlier this week. Texas Light Sweet futures reached a daily-high of 61.31 in overnight trading before nose-diving late in the U.S. afternoon session. Previously, WTI crude soared above $62 on Wednesday amid bullish supply data. Crude stockpiles in the U.S. last week unexpectedly declined by 3.9 million barrels, significantly below expectations of a 1.5 million build. It marked the first time this year U.S. crude inventories decreased on a week-to-week basis, easing concerns that stockpiles at the Cushing Oil Hub in Oklahoma could reach full storage capacity by the start of the summer. U.S. crude inventories are now at 487.0 million barrels, below last week's record-high of 490.9 million – the highest level in at least 80 years. Last month, the price of WTI crude futures gained more than 20% as slowing U.S. shale production allayed fears that the U.S. could reach full storage capacity by the start of the summer. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for June delivery also fell precipitously plummeting 2.22 or 3.28% to 65.55. A day earlier, brent futures reached a session-high of 69.60 moving above $69 a barrel for the first time since Dec. 10. The spread between the U.S. and international benchmarks of crude stood at 6.57, below Wednesday's level of 6.78. Elsewhere, Iranian oil minister Bijan Zanganeh appeared confident that his nation could regain its market share if crippling economic sanctions are lifted this summer once a nuclear pact is reached with Western powers. Speaking at an Energy Security Summit in Berlin, Zanganeh said Iran's production could reach "three to four million barrels per day," within eight months of a deal, up from pre-2012 levels of 2.5 million bpd. "Oil-producing countries should create space for Iran when we increase our exports after sanctions are lifted," Zanganeh said, according to Shana, the official news service for Oil & Gas in Iran. Last month, Reuters reported that Iran has 30 million barrels of oil stored in offshore tankers ready for export, after the Persian Gulf nation agreed on the framework of a nuclear deal with Western powers. In addition, Facts Global Energy, an energy consulting firm, has forecast that Iranian oil exports could reach a level of 1.7 million barrels per day within 12 months of a final deal up from it current level of a million bpd. An outflow of Iranian could depress oil prices in a global market already saturated by a glut of supply. Energy traders await Friday's weekly rig count from oil services firm  Baker Hughes  (NYSE:BHI) for a further gauge on supply levels. Last week, the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. dropped by 24 to 679 as the figure moved lower for the 21st consecutive week. The national rig count is currently at its lowest level since November, 2010. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, rose 0.55% to 94.72, one day after falling to 93.99, the lowest level since late-February.
