Title: Gold plunges to Sept. low amid stronger dollar, China stimulus measures
Date: 20150909
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold futures fell sharply on Wednesday suffering its largest one-day fall in more than six weeks, amid a broadly stronger dollar and the introduction of further stimulus measures by China to rekindle its flagging economy. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for December delivery wavered between $1,101.20 and $1,124.70 before closing near session-lows at $1,101.50, down 19.50 or 1.74% on the session. The precious metal dropped to its lowest level since August 11 when it fell below $1,100 an ounce. Gold likely gained support at $1,094 the low from Aug. 11 and was met with resistance at 1,132.90, the high from Sept. 3. In Beijing, China's finance ministry said it would introduce "more forceful" fiscal measures in order to boost slowing economic growth, which is projected to remain at the lowest level in more than a decade for the third quarter. The measures include a potential tax cut for small business, as well as the allocation of funding for infrastructure projects. As part of the proposal, the ministry approved two railway projects worth nearly 70 billion yuan or $11 billion. “We will accelerate the implementation and improvement of proactive fiscal policy and related measures, do timely fine tuning, and speed up reform measures to support stable growth and promote continued healthy economic development,” the finance ministry said in a statement. It came one day after China announced that its dollar-denominated exports fell sharply by 5.5% on a year-over-year basis in August, exacerbating concerns about persisting weakness in the world's second-largest economy. Imports, meanwhile, tumbled 13.8% on a yearly basis, producing a trade surplus of $60.24 billion. On Wednesday, the Shanghai Composite index closed 2.3% higher extending gains from one session earlier. China is the world's largest producer of gold and the second-largest consumer behind India. In the U.S., the Labor Department said on Wednesday in its Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey (JOLTS) that nationwide openings increased to a new series high in July, reaching a level of 5.8 million. The survey previously rose to a series-high in May when it reached a level of 5.4 million. The job openings rate surged 3.9% in July, after measuring at 3.6% the previous three months. It also came off the back of a mixed employment report for August on Friday when the labor market added 173,000 non-farm payrolls, while the unemployment rate dropped to 5.1%, its lowest level since April, 2008. The data could strengthen arguments from the hawks at the Federal Reserve for a September interest rate hike. Gold, which is not attached to dividends or interest rates, struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in raising rate environments. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, rose more than 0.45% to an intraday high of 96.42 before falling slightly back in afternoon trading. On Tuesday, the index fell to a session-low of 95.73, its lowest level in nearly a week. By comparison, the index reached a multi-month high at 97.97 on Aug. 10. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. On Tuesday, World Bank chief economist Kaushik Basu warned that a rate hike by the Fed next week could trigger a widespread crisis in emerging markets, pushing capital away from their economies and potentially creating sharp fluctuations in their currencies. Officials from the International Monetary Fund have issued similar warnings in recent weeks on the severe ramifications a rate hike could have on global markets that are not in the position to absorb a tightening of monetary policy from the U.S. central bank. Silver for December delivery fell 0.180 or 1.22% to 14.575 an ounce. Copper for December delivery surged to a seven-week high at 2.475 a pound, before falling back to 2.434 -- up 0.01% on the session.
