Title: Oil's losses deepen; WTI crude down more than 3%
Date: 20150210
Content:
Investing.com - Oil futures fell sharply on Tuesday, as a combination of concerns over Greece's debt negotiations and worries over global supply and demand levels weighed. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in March fell by as much as $2.08, or 3.93%, to hit a session low of $50.78 a barrel, before trading at $50.89 during U.S. morning hours, down $1.97, or 3.73%. Investors remained cautious amid concerns over Greece’s future in the euro zone as negotiations with the European Union over the country's debt and bailout continued. Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras has said he will deliver on pre-election pledges to roll back austerity measures and reject an international bailout extension. Instead, he is seeking a new agreement to cover Greece’s funding needs until June. Sentiment improved mildly earlier amid rumors the European Commission could propose a six-month extension to Greece's bailout program, which is due to end on February 28. Meanwhile, the International Energy Agency said in its Medium Term Oil Market report released earlier in the day that the U.S. will remain the world's top source of oil supply growth until 2020. A day earlier, New York-traded oil futures surged $1.17, or 2.26%, to end at $52.86 after the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries cut forecasts for global oil-supply growth in 2015 as drillers in the U.S. pull back on new production in response to low prices New York-traded oil futures are up almost 15% over the past three weeks amid speculation productions cuts by drillers in the U.S and global oil companies will alleviate a glut in supplies. However, prices are still down almost 52% from a recent peak of $107.50 hit in June. Market participants looked ahead to fresh weekly information on U.S. stockpiles of crude and refined products to gauge the strength of demand in the world’s largest oil consumer. The American Petroleum Institute will release its inventories report later in the day, while Wednesday’s government report could show crude stockpiles rose by 3.7 million barrels in the week ended February 6. Elsewhere, on the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for April delivery dipped 91 cents, or 1.53%, to trade at $58.42 a barrel, after falling by as much as $1.05, or 1.76%, to touch a daily low of $58.28. London-traded Brent tacked on 65 cents, or 1.11%, on Monday to settle at $59.33. London-traded Brent prices sky-rocketed 17% over the past two weeks, the largest two-week gain since 1998. However, prices are still down approximately 50% since June, when futures climbed near $116. Oil prices have fallen sharply in recent months as the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries resisted calls to cut output, while the U.S. pumped at the fastest pace in more than three decades, creating a glut in global supplies. Meanwhile, data released earlier showed that inflation in China weakened to the lowest level in five years, underling concerns over a slowdown in the world's second largest economy. The Asian nation is the world's second largest oil consumer after the U.S. and has been the engine of strengthening demand. 
