Title: Gold mostly steady in Asia after sharp fall in U.S. on Fed rate views
Date: 20150928
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices held mostly steady on Tuesday in Asia after a sharp fall overnight on views that widely expected rate hike by the Federal Reserve could happen as early as October. Earlier, San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank President John Williams said Monday in the U.S. he sees monetary policy in the U.S. beginning to normalize this year. "All in all, things are looking up," Williams said in remarks prepared for a UCLA Anderson School of Management event, "and if they stay on track, I see this as the year we start the process of monetary policy normalization." On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for December delivery rose 0.03% to $1,132.00 a troy ounce., while silver futures for December delivery gained 0.08% to $14.550 a troy ounce. Copper for December delivery fell 0.12% to 2.244 a pound. Overnight, gold futures fell sharply on Monday amid a wavering dollar, as relatively optimistic personal income data reinforced the argument for an imminent interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve. On Monday morning, the U.S. Department of Commerce's Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) said its Personal Consumption Expenditure (PCE) Index increased by $54.9 million or 0.4% in August, or at the same rate as its increase a month earlier. Personal income rose by 0.3% last month, following an upward revision of 0.1% in July to 0.4%. The Core PCE Index, which strips out food and energy prices, increased 0.4% on a month-over-month basis, on the back of strong gains in durable goods and motor vehicles and parts. It follows an increase of 0.3% in July. On a yearly basis, Core PCE inched up 0.1% from its July level to 1.3% over the last 12 months. The Core or Real PCE Index is the Fed's preferred gauge for inflation, as it decides whether to raise short-term interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade. Long-term inflation has remained under the Fed's targeted goal of 2% in every month for the last three years. Last week at a speech at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, Yellen noted that the inflation shortfall is likely to be transitory, as one-off factors such as lower energy prices and weaker imports due to a stronger dollar abate. Yellen added that inflation should reach the Fed's 2% target when the labor market returns to full employment. Gold, which is not attached to interest rates or dividends, struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. Separately, New York Fed president William Dudley told the Wall Street Journal on Monday that the Fed is on track to hike rates before the end of the year and could reach its targeted goal for inflation at some point in 2016. In its inflation forecasts earlier this month, the Fed estimated that inflation would reach 1.7% by the end of next year and not hit 2.0% until 2018. 
