Title: NYMEX crude up in Asia despite bearish API build in stocks
Date: 20151027
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices gained in early Asia despite bearish data from a U.S. industry group on domestic stockpiles. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for December delivery rose 0.44% to 43.49 a barrel in early Asia. The American Petroleum Institute late Tuesday said crude stocks last week jumped 4.1 million barrels last week, well above the 3 million barrel gain seen, and one week after reporting a surprising build of 7.1 million barrels. Separately, Wednesday's government report could show that U.S. crude stockpiles rose by 3.0 million barrels. Last week, the U.S. Energy Information Administration reported that crude stockpiles surged by 8 million for the week ending on Oct. 16. At 476.6 million barrels, U.S. crude oil inventories remain near levels not seen for this time of year in at least 80 years. Overnight, U.S. crude futures fell sharply to slump to near-two months low on Tuesday, as investors awaited the release of the American Petroleum Institute's weekly crude stockpile report after the bell for further indications on the supply-demand imbalance in domestic energy markets. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude for December delivery wavered between $46.41 and $47.56 a barrel, before closing at $46.81, down 0.73 or 1.54% on the day. Earlier in Tuesday's session, North Sea Brent fell to its lowest level since Sept. 14. Meanwhile, the spread between the international and the U.S. benchmark of crude stood at $3.61, slightly below Monday's level of $3.72 at the close of trading. U.S. crude production, meanwhile, remained unchanged for the week at 9.096 million barrels per day. A week earlier, output fell by 76,000 bpd to its lowest level on the calendar year. Oil prices are down by more than 40% since OPEC roiled global energy markets last year by leaving its production ceiling unchanged as a mechanism for defending its market share. OPEC production is expected to remain level until early-December when the world's largest cartel is scheduled to meet next. While smaller OPEC members such as Venezuela are expected to push for raising the floor on crude prices to $70 a barrel, they still lack the clout to overrule Saudi Arabia, OPEC's largest producer. Over the last year, Saudi Arabia has depressed global prices in an apparent strategy to force U.S. shale producers to slash output. 
