Title: Gold falls mildly, as investors lock into profits from post-Fed meeting
Date: 20150921
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold futures fell mildly on Monday, as commodity traders locked into profits from late last week when the precious metal surged to near-monthly highs. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for December delivery traded in a tight range between $1,129.30 and $1,139.40 a troy ounce, before settling at $1,132.50, down 5.10 or 0.46% on the session. On Friday, gold futures surged more than 1.85%, enjoying its strongest one-day move in more than a month, as traders digested relatively dovish statements from the Federal Open Market Committee following its decision to hold short-term interest rates at its current near-zero level. After opening September just above $1,130 an ounce, gold is virtually flat over the last month. Gold futures likely gained support at $1,098.20, the low from Sept. 11 and was met with resistance at $1,169.00, the high from Aug. 24. The Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta said on Monday morning that 12-month business inflation expectations inched down to 1.7% in September, from its August level of 1.8%. At 1.7% the current rate fell back to its level from the first four months of the year and approached near multi-year lows. Last week, the FOMC downgraded its median inflation forecasts at its September monetary policy meeting to 0.3% for the end of 2015, while lowering inflation expectations for the end of next year to 1.7%. The Federal Reserve now expects that inflation will not reach its 2.0% target until 2018. Over the weekend, San Francisco Fed president John Williams emphasized that the FOMC's decision to leave rates unchanged for a 55th consecutive meeting was a "close call," providing indications that a rate hike could occur before the end of the year. Addressing a conference on the U.S.-China financial system, Williams said the U.S. labor market could reach full employment in the "near future," even though inflation still remains far below the Fed's expectations. "Given the progress we've made and continue to make on our goals, I view the next appropriate step as gradually raising interest rates," Williams said. Other members of the FOMC appear considerably more hawkish. James Bullard, a non-voting member of the committee, told CNBC that he would have dissented if he had a vote last week, citing ample accommodation in the system to offset potential deflation. "I understand that there are risks out there but you have to take a prudent policy and inch your way back to normal," Bullard said. Gold, which is not attached to dividends or interest rates, struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, surged more than 0.6% to an intraday high of 96.14, its highest level in more than a week. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Investors are also preparing for the release of a wave of economic indicators later this week that could provide further signals on the direction of the global economy. On Tuesday, the euro zone will issue reports on economic sentiment and consumer confidence for September, a day before China releases its manufacturing index for the month. At week's end, the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis will release its third estimate of U.S. GDP in the second quarter. Real GDP is expected to remain at 3.7% for the quarter. Silver for December delivery rose 0.062 or 0.41% to 15.230 an ounce. Copper for December delivery gained 0.003 or 0.13% to 2.389 a pound.
