Title: Crude futures relatively unchanged as Iran, supply glut remain in focus
Date: 20150515
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude futures were mixed on Friday, as concerns of a supply glut prompted investors to question a recent upswing in prices. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for June delivery fell 0.14 or 0.25% to $59.75 a barrel, extending a mild slump to its third straight session. Texas Light Sweet futures pared some of their losses from the U.S. morning session when it plunged more than 2% to a session-low of $58.40 before moving back toward $60 a barrel in afternoon trading. For the week, WTI crude peaked at $61.85 days after soaring to a five-month high at $62.58 on May 6. In April, U.S. crude futures surged more than 20% amid a slowdown in shale field production. WTI crude is still down substantially from its 12-month high last June when it moved above $107 a barrel. The sharp reversal in recent weeks has spooked some private equity investors, who are betting on an imminent sell-off. Analysts at Blackstone (NYSE:BX) Group LP's distressed credit unit, for instance, are reportedly abandoning investments in several energy companies upon the belief that crude futures are about to turn lower. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), meanwhile, brent crude for July delivery gained 0.10 or 0.15% to 66.80. Investors turned their attention to July futures, which spiked above $70 on May 6, after June contracts expired earlier this week. Much like WTI, brent enjoyed a stellar month in April when prices rose by more than 15%. The spread between the international and U.S. domestic benchmarks of crude stood at $7.05, above Thursday's level of 6.80. Market players digested the conclusion of Thursday's Persian Gulf summit at Camp David when U.S. president Barack Obama tried to assuage concerns of Middle East allies stemming from a proposed Iranian nuclear pact. Speaking to reporters at the Maryland retreat, Obama reaffirmed the government's support of the Gulf partners by considering the use of military force to help aid their defense. Western powers are facing a June 30 deadline to reach a final agreement on a comprehensive deal with Iran. If economic sanctions are lifted against Iran, the Gulf nation could nearly double its exports from a current level of 1.0 million barrels per day. An outpouring of Iranian oil may depress prices in a global market already saturated by oversupply. Elsewhere, oil services firm  Baker Hughes  (NYSE:BHI) said in its weekly rig count that the number of U.S. oil rigs nationwide decreased by eight on the week to 660. The modest drop marked the 23rd consecutive weekly decline, as the rig total fell to its lowest level since August, 2010. The pace of decline, however, continued to slow as observers keep a close eye on a prolonged production battle between the U.S and OPEC. In February, for instance, the rig count fell by more than 60 on consecutive weeks. The rig count still remains roughly 60% lower from its peak of 1,609 in October. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, was relatively flat on Friday at 93.39. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become less expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar weakens. 
