Title: NYMEX crude drops on weak China May import figures
Date: 20150607
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices dropped in Asia on Monday as China trade data painted a picture of weak imports by the world's top crude buyer.China said May exports fell 2.5%, less than the 5% drop seen, while imports dropped 17.6%, much more than the slide of 10.7% expected.China customs gave the trade surplus as RMB366.8 billion, with a dollar figure set at $59.49 billion, well above the $44.95 billion forecast.Earlier, Japan revised first quarter GDP up to a pace of 1% quarter-on-quarter from a preliminary 0.6% gain and an expected upward revision to 0.7%.The revised GDP data showed the economic recovery has gained traction, reaching a 3.9% annual growth rate, and overcoming the drag from last year's sales tax hike and economists expect GDP to mark the third straight growth quarter in April-June, but at a slower pace.On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in July fell 0.90% to $58.59 a barrel.Last week, Crude oil futures rebounded from earlier losses to rise sharply on Friday, after data showed that the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. fell again last week.Industry research group  Baker Hughes  (NYSE:NYSE:BHI) said late Friday that the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. fell by 4 last week to 642. The drop marks the 26th straight week of declines.Market players have been paying close attention to the shrinking rig count in recent months for signs it will eventually reduce the glut of crude flowing into the market.The U.S. Energy Information Administration said on Wednesday that crude oil inventories fell by 1.9 million barrels last week to 477.4 million. It was the fifth straight weekly decline.Elsewhere, on the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent for July delivery hit a session low of $60.94, a level not seen since April 15, before turning higher to close at $63.31, up $1.28, or 2.06% on Friday.The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Counties decided on Friday to maintain its production levels at 30 million barrels per day for at least another six months, despite ongoing concerns over ample global supplies. Oil prices were down sharply earlier as the U.S. dollar surged after an upbeat jobs report raised expectations for an interest rate hike this fall.The Labor Department reported that the U.S. economy added 280,000 jobs in May, the most since December and far more than the 225,000 forecast by economists. The unemployment rate ticked up to 5.5% last month from 5.4% in April, while average hourly earnings rose by 0.3%, above expectations for a 0.2% increase.The robust jobs report added to the view that the U.S. economy was regaining strength after contracting in the first quarter, fuelling speculation that the Federal Reserve could raise rates as early as September. In the week ahead, investors will be focusing on Thursday's U.S. retail sales report for May, as well as Friday's consumer sentiment data, for fresh indications on the strength of the economy and the timing of a rate increase. 
