Title: NYMEX crude gains in Asia as China rate cut aids sentiment
Date: 20151025
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices gained in Asia on Monday as investors saw a rate cut by China as a boost for demand prospects. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in November rose 0.16% to $44.67 a barrel. On Friday, the People's Bank of China cut its benchmark interest rate by a quarter percentage point to 4.35%, the latest in a series of measures aimed at stimulating economic activity and boosting growth. It was the sixth rate cut over the past 12 months, fueling concerns that economic growth is weakening more than is currently expected. The moves come several days after Chinese government data showed third-quarter economic growth slowed to 6.9%, the first time since the global financial crisis that the country’s gross domestic product has grown less than 7%. China is the world's second largest oil consumer after the U.S. and has been the engine of strengthening demand. In the week ahead, investors will be focusing on Wednesday’s monetary policy announcement by the Federal Reserve for fresh indications on the timing of an initial rate hike. Market participants will also be awaiting a preliminary estimate of third quarter growth from the U.S. on Thursday to gauge the strength of the economy. Last week, crude oil futures fell to three-week lows on Friday, as a stronger U.S. dollar coupled with ongoing concerns over the current glut in global supplies drove down prices. On the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for December delivery slumped 9 cents, or 0.19%, on Friday to close at $47.99 a barrel. It earlier fell to $47.45, the lowest since October 2. On the week, New York-traded oil futures plunged $2.67, or 5.63%, as traders focused on the current glut in supplies despite a tighter production outlook. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, crude oil inventories rose by 8.0 million barrels last week. Market analysts' expected a crude-stock rise of 3.9 million barrels. At 476.6 million barrels, U.S. crude oil inventories remain near levels not seen for this time of year in at least the last 80 years. Global oil production is outpacing demand following a boom in U.S. shale oil production and after a decision by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries last year not to cut production. Saudi Arabia and other Gulf OPEC members have indicated they will continue to stick to their policy of defending market share by keeping production high. Oil prices have lost nearly 60% since last summer as lingering concerns over a glut in world markets drove down prices. 
