Title: Gold dips in early Asia ahead of China market open, silver, copper up
Date: 20150824
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices eased slightly in early Asia on Tuesday with investors braced for more volatile trade sparked by market uncertainty in China, though silver and copepr staged rebounds. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for December delivery eased 0.16% to $1,151.90 a troy ounce. Silver for September delivery rose 0.23% to $14.775 a troy oune. Copper for September rose 0.23% at $2.248 a pound. Overnight, gold futures fell slightly after reaching seven-week highs on Monday, as China rattled markets throughout the world amid speculation that its central bank is on the verge of injecting further liquidity measures in an effort to jumpstart its flagging economy. On Monday, the Shanghai Composite Index plunged 8.5% suffering its sharpest fall since 2007, as a dearth of activity from the People's Bank of China created a market-wide panic. Chinese index futures, meanwhile, fell by their limit of 10% providing strong indications that the downturn will continue. The massive sell-off comes days after Chinese manufacturing data dropped to its lowest level since the Financial Crisis, underscoring persistent sluggishness in the world's second-largest economy. While Chinese GDP grew by 7% over the first half of 2015, many analysts believe China's economy is decelerating and could suffer its slowest full-year growth in a quarter century. Over the weekend, the People's Bank of China (PBOC) gave approval for local government pension funds to invest in Chinese equities, a policy move that could result in close to $100 billion being invested in stock markets nationwide. The PBOC is also expected to cut the Reserve Ratio Requirement (RRR) or amount that banks are forced to hold in reserves over the next several weeks, the Wall Street Journal reported. The PBOC has lowered the RRR by a total of 200 basis points in three separate cuts since February in an effort to accelerate economic growth. Another reduction of 50 to 100 basis points could pump more liquidity into the economy to stave off a massive capital outflow away from Chinese markets. Following the activities of the past three days, many investors expected the PBOC to enact short-term measures on Monday to prevent a surge of capital from flowing out of Chinese markets. On Aug. 11, the Chinese central bank spooked global foreign exchange markets by devaluing the yuan by 1.9%, its largest one-day amount in more than a decade. Ever since, the PBOC has been forced to spend nearly $200 billion to prevent the yuan from falling even further below its desired level, the Financial Times reported. China is the world's largest producer of gold and the second-largest consumer of the precious metal behind India. 
