Title: NYMEX crude gains in Asia with U.S. rig count figures ahead
Date: 20151022
Content:
Investing.com - Crude gained in Asia on Friday ahead of rig count data in the U.s. that will set the tone on supply. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for December delivery rose 0.43% to $45.58 a barrel. Last week,  Baker Hughes  (N:BHI) said that the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. decreased by 10 last week to 595, the seventh straight weekly decline. Over the prior six weeks, drillers had cut 70 rigs. A lower U.S. rig count is usually a bullish sign for oil as it signals potentially lower production in the future. Overnight, crude futures ticked up on Thursday during a choppy day of trading, as investors continued to react to bearish supply data from a massive stockpile build last week. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude for December delivery wavered between $47.70 and $48.72 a barrel, before closing at $48.11, up 0.26 or 0.54% on the day. Brent futures are still down by approximately 1.5% over the last month of trading. Meanwhile, the spread between the international and U.S. domestic benchmarks of crude stood at $2.82, above Wednesday's level of $2.41 at the close of trading. Energy traders continued to digest reports of a surprising build last week when crude stockpiles surged by 8 million for the week ending on Oct. 16. At 476.6 million barrels, U.S. crude oil inventories remain near levels not seen for this time of year in at least 80 years. Crude inventories nationwide increased by more than twice the level anticipated by analysts. Global oil prices are down by more than 40% since OPEC rattled energy markets last November by keeping its production ceiling above 30 million barrels per day in an effort to defend its market share. The tactic triggered a prolonged battle with U.S. shale producers, saturating global markets with a glut of supply. For the most part, market analysts do not expect prices to return to $70 a barrel until the global supply-demand imbalance is corrected. The participants at a OPEC meeting in Vienna on Wednesday reportedly did not address any strategies to slash global crude production. The meeting featured eight non-OPEC members, including Russia. 
