Title: Gold closes unchanged in light trade, ahead of Fed's policy decision
Date: 20151027
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold futures closed on Tuesday unchanged amid a slightly stronger dollar, as metal traders await the completion of the Federal Open Market Committee's two-day October meeting on Wednesday afternoon for further indications on the timing of an interest rate hike by the U.S. central bank. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for December delivery traded in a tight range between $1,160.70 and $1,168.70 an ounce before settling at $1,166.20, finishing flat on the session. Over the last several sessions, investors have been hesitant to make any major moves ahead of the Federal Reserve's policy statement on Wednesday. Gold futures have fallen slightly since surging to three-month highs in mid-October. Gold likely gained support at $1,113.30, the low from Oct. 1 and was met with resistance at $1,189.00, the high from Oct. 14. Although the FOMC has hinted that it will likely hold short-term interest rates at its current near-zero level at the meeting, Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen has still not ruled out a rate hike. The FOMC has left its benchmark Federal Funds Rate at its current level between zero and 0.25% for 55 consecutive meetings. At the FOMC's September monetary policy meeting, Yellen noted that the Fed will begin monetary policy normalization when it had seen "further improvement in the labor market," and was "reasonably confident" that inflation was moving toward its targeted goal of 2%. Still, the Fed downgraded its median inflation forecasts at the meeting to 0.3% for the end of 2015, while lowering inflation expectations for the end of next year to 1.7%. The Fed now expects that inflation will not reach its 2.0% target until 2018. Days later, however, Yellen indicated that the timing could be appropriate to raise the Federal Funds Rate before the end of the year, as transitory effects dragging down inflation from lower energy prices and a stronger dollar continued to recede. Shortly after Yellen's comments, though, a dismal U.S. national employment report from September provided greater uncertainty with the timing of a rate hike. The U.S. Department of Labor will release two additional U.S. national employment reports before the FOMC's December meeting, providing the Fed with enough data on the state of the U.S. labor market to help guide their decision. Accordingly, the CME Group's (O:CME) Fed Watch has determined that there is only a 5% chance of a rate hike in October, versus a 30% probability of one at the FOMC's meeting on Dec. 15-16. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, gained more than 0.10% to an intraday high of 97.06. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Silver for December delivery fell 0.025 or 0.16% to close at 15.880 an ounce. Copper for December delivery gained 0.004 or 0.18% to end Tuesday's session at 2.361 a pound.
