Title: WTI oil futures fall to fresh 3-month low on supply outlook
Date: 20150720
Content:
Investing.com - U.S. oil futures fell to the lowest level in more than three months on Monday, as ongoing worries over high domestic U.S. oil production, despite a declining rig count, weighed. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for September delivery hit an intraday low of $50.47 a barrel, a level not seen since April 10, before trading at $50.72 during U.S. morning hours, down 49 cents, or 0.96%. New York-traded oil futures slumped $1.26, or 3.51%, last week, the fifth consecutive weekly loss, as worries over high domestic U.S. oil production weighed. According to industry research group  Baker Hughes  (NYSE:BHI), the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. declined by seven last week to 638, snapping two weeks of gains. The data eased concerns over a revival in U.S. drilling activity. Elsewhere, on the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for September delivery shed 30 cents, or 0.53%, to trade at $56.80 a barrel. London-traded Brent futures lost $1.49, or 3.22%, last week, the third straight weekly decline, amid concerns a resumption of Iranian oil exports will add to a global glut. Iran and six world powers reached a long-awaited nuclear deal last week that would end sanctions on Tehran in exchange for curbs on the country's disputed nuclear program. Iran reportedly hoards 30 million barrels of oil in its reserves ready for export. However, analysts largely estimate that Iranian crude exports could take several months to ramp up significantly. Global oil production is outpacing demand following a boom in U.S. shale oil production and after a decision by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries last year not to cut production. The spread between the Brent and the WTI crude contracts stood at $6.08 a barrel, compared to $5.89 by close of trade on Friday. Meanwhile, a broadly stronger U.S. dollar also weighed. The dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, was last at 98.00 after hitting a seven-week high of 98.19 earlier. Dollar-denominated oil futures contracts tend to fall when the dollar rises, as this makes oil more expensive for buyers in other currencies. The greenback was boosted amid signals the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates for the first time in eight years this fall. 
