Title: Gold prices hold mostly steady in Asia ahead of U.S. jobs report
Date: 20151105
Content:
Investing.com - Gold tread water in Asia on Friday with reluctance to take positions ahead of U.S. jobs data seen as key for a decision by the Federal Reserve to raise rates next month. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for December delivery traded up 0.01% to $1,104.50 a trooy ounce. Silver for December delivery gained 0.13% at $14.975 a troy ounce. Copper for December delivery was flat at $2.256 a pound. Overnight, gold inched down on Thursday to extend a seven-day losing streak, as investors awaited the release of Friday's U.S. national employment report for further clues on whether the Federal Reserve could raise short-term interest rates before the end of the year. Commodity traders were hesitant to make any major moves ahead of Friday's October jobs report from the U.S. Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics. On Friday morning, the Labor Department is expected to report that nonfarm payrolls increased by 190,000 last month after an extremely soft gain of 142,000 in September. Analysts also expect the unemployment rate to fall 0.1% to 5.0% and average hourly earnings to tick up by 0.2 to 0.2%. In comments before the House Financial Services Committee on Wednesday, Fed chair Janet Yellen indicated that while measures of labor underutilization have declined in recent months, gains in the labor market have still been lower than the Fed anticipated. The next two U.S. job reports are viewed as critical for policymakers who support an imminent rate hike. Yellen reiterated in her testimony that the Federal Open Market Committee will continue to take a data driven approach to its decision on whether to begin policy normalization. Nearly a decade has passed since the FOMC last raised its benchmark Federal Funds Rate. The U.S. central bank has left the rate at which banks can borrow on overnight loans at its current level of zero to 0.25% since the height of the Financial Crisis. On Wednesday, Yellen emphasized that a rate hike decision could be on the table at the FOMC's December meeting if the Fed sees continued improvement in the economy and signals that inflation is moving toward its targeted long-term goal of 2% over the next several weeks. Gold, which is not attached to interest rates or dividends, struggles to compete with higher yields in rising rate environments. 
