Title: U.S. crude falls to weekly low, amid considerable inventory build
Date: 20151015
Content:
Investing.com -- U.S. crude futures fell to the lowest level in more than a week on Thursday, as a considerable build in crude stockpiles last week exacerbated concerns over a glut of oversupply on global energy markets. For most of Thursday's session, crude futures were on track to settle at their lowest level in two weeks until rallying in the final minutes before the close of trading.  On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for November delivery traded between $45.25 and $46.61 a barrel before settling at 46.34, down 0.30 or 0.63% on the session. At one point, Texas Long Sweet futures fell to its lowest level on Thursday in nine sessions. Since surging above $50 a barrel last week to an 11-week high, U.S. crude futures have closed in the red in each of the last four sessions. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for December delivery wavered between $48.70 and $49.84 a barrel before closing at $49.74, up 0.05 or 0.10% on the day. With the slight gains, brent futures halted a four-day losing streak. On Thursday morning, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said U.S. crude inventories for the week ending on Oct. 9 surged by 7.6 million barrels, significantly above forecasts for a build of 2.8 million barrels. A bevy of analysts expected to see a considerable weekly increase after the American Petroleum Institute reported a build of 9.3 million barrels for the week on Wednesday evening. At 468.6 million barrels, U.S. crude oil inventories remain near levels not seen for this time of year in at least the last 80 years. Meanwhile, crude production for the week plunged by 76,000 barrels per day, erasing all of the gains from the prior week. U.S. crude output has remained above 9.0 million bpd for every week this year, dating back to last October. The sharp increases in crude stockpiles came amid significantly weaker demand in gasoline. Refinery activity last week fell sharply, as distillate fuel production waned by 116,000 bpd to 4.944 million bpd. As a result, refineries only operated at 86% of their operable capacity on the week. The report from the U.S. Department of Energy was released one day later this week due to the closure of the federal government on Monday during the Columbus Day holiday. Investors continued to digest bearish demand forecasts from earlier this week. On Tuesday, the Paris-based International Energy Agency said it expects global demand to increase by 1.21 million barrels per day in 2016, down 150,000 bpd from its forecasts last month. Crude prices have crashed by nearly 40% since OPEC triggered a prolonged battle for market share with the U.S. last November when it opted to leave its production ceiling above 30 million bpd. The tactic saturated global markets with excess supply, resulting in a precipitous drop in prices. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, rose more than 0.5% to an intraday high of 94.63. Earlier in the session it fell to a fresh monthly low at 93.83. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates.
