Title: Crude drops slightly slowing rally, as fighting in Yemen escalates
Date: 20150427
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude futures fell slightly on Monday, amid the escalation of fighting in Yemen between Saudi Arabia and Shiite-led Houthi rebels. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for June delivery fell 0.17 or 0.30% to $56.98, extending previous losses from last week. Crude futures rose above $57.25 a barrel in U.S. morning trading before falling slightly during the afternoon session. Last week, WTI crude fell 60 cents or 0.3% for the week, halting an extended rally of four straight weeks of gains. On Sunday, Yemeni Foreign Minister Riyadh Yaseen rebuffed calls by former Yemen president Ali Abdullah Saleh, reiterating that the month-long conflict is far from being settled. "These calls are unacceptable after all of the destruction Ali Abdullah Saleh has caused. There can be no place for Saleh in any future political talks," Yaseen told a news conference in London. At the same time, roughly 4,000 troops in Saudi Arabia reportedly vacated their positions on the border ahead of a possible ground attack in Yemen. Intel (NASDAQ:INTC) attained by Western intelligence agencies determined that Saudi troops fled their bases, military hubs and checkpoints, Iraqi news website Nahrain Net reported. It came as reports surfaced that the sides were on the verge of reaching an accord during United Nation-led negotiations late last month, before Saudi Arabia initiated a series of air bombings that has resulted in the deaths of more than 3,000 people in Yemen, including unarmed women and children. The Houthis agreed to abandon several cities occupied by its militias in exchange for adopting the structure for a new government, which included a reduced role for deposed, Western-backed Yemen president Abed Rabbo Mansour Hadi, according to the Wall Street Journal. The talks reportedly collapsed when Saudi Arabia launched its air campaign on March 26. While Yemen is a minor exporter of crude, it is strategically located on the Bab el-Mandeb strait, one of the world's largest chokepoints of oil. Energy traders are sensitive of any geopolitical risks involving Saudi Arabia, Opec's largest crude producer. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for June delivery fell 0.42 or 0.64% to $64.86 a barrel. The spread between international and U.S. domestic benchmark stood at $7.88, up from $7.71 at last week's close. Both WTI and brent crude futures are still up by more than 12% on the month, as slowing production has helped reduce a glut of supply. On Friday, oil services firm  Baker Hughes  (NYSE:BHI) said oil rigs in the U.S. fell by 31 a week earlier to 703, the lowest since October, 2010. Elsewhere, natural gas for May delivery plunged 7.3 cents or 2.9% to 2.458 per a million BTUs, its lowest level since June, 2012, as long-term weather updates created weakening demand. May future prices for natural gas fell below June options, as options for the month of May expired at the end of Monday's session. 
