Title: NYMEX crude falls in Asia as API data shows large U.S. stockpile build
Date: 20150121
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices fell in Asia on Thursday after U.S. industry data showed a large increase in stockpiles, furtehr adding to concerns of a vastly over supplied market.Industry group American Petroleum Institute (API) late on Wednesday reported that U.S. crude stocks rose 5.7 million barrels in the week to Jan. 16. Stocks at Cushing rose by 2.5 barrels, according to Reuters.Meanwhile, gasoline stockpiles rose, while distillate fuel stockpiles fell, API said. More closely watched data from the U.S. Departmet of Energy due Thursday is expected to show a 2.617 million barrels build in crude oil inveeentories last week, a gain of 250,000 barrels in distillae stocks and a 1.3 million barrel increase in gasoline stocks.On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in March fell 0.95% to $47.33 a barrel in Asia.Overnight, crude oil futures rallied more than 1% on Wednesday, as investors returned to the market to cover short positions ahead of the European Central Bank's monthly policy meeting on Thursday, at which it is widely expected to launch a government bond-buying program.Elsewhere, on the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for March delivery tacked on 81 cents, or 1.7%, to trade at $48.81 a barrel on Wednesday.On Tuesday, London-traded Brent prices fell 85 cents, or 1.74%, to close at $47.99 a barrel. Brent hit $45.19 on January 13, the weakest level since April 2009.Oil prices have fallen nearly 60% since June as the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries resisted calls to cut output, while the U.S. pumped at the fastest pace in more than three decades, creating a glut in global supplies.Market participants looked ahead to fresh weekly information on U.S. stockpiles of crude and refined products to gauge the strength of demand in the world’s largest oil consumer.The American Petroleum report came out one day later than usual due to Monday's Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday in the U.S.Elsewhere, the euro remained under pressure amid mounting expectations that the ECB will embark on an outright quantitative easing program on Thursday, in a bid to stave off the threat of deflation in the euro area. 
