Title: Gold remains near three-month lows, amid quiet Veterans Day trade
Date: 20151111
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold futures inched down on Wednesday to remain near three-month lows, on a quiet day of trading due to the Veterans' Day holiday. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for December delivery traded in a tight range between $1,084.90 and $1,092.70 an ounce, before settling at $1,048.20, down 4.30 or 0.40% on the session. Since peaking above $1,175 an ounce in late-October, gold has now closed lower in nine of the last 11 sessions. The Fed-inspired rout has led to a 6% decline in the value of gold over the last month, as investors prepare for the increasing possibility of an interest rate hike by the U.S. Central Bank in December. The precious metal continues to hover near six-and-a-half year lows from July after erasing all of its gains from the last four months. Last Friday, gold futures crashed by more than 1.5% on the session after a robust October U.S. jobs report provided the hawks on the Federal Reserve with ammunition for a December rate hike. The Fed's benchmark Federal Funds Rate has remained at its current level between zero and 0.25% since 2009. Nearly a decade has elapsed since the Federal Open Market Committee last raised short-term interest rates. Following the optimistic jobs data last week, the CME Group's (O:CME) Fed watch increased the probability of a December rate hike above 70%. Gold likely gained support at $1,078.60, the low from July 24 and was met with resistance at $1,189.00, the high from Oct. 14. On Thursday, a host of FOMC members including Fed chair Janet Yellen are slated to make appearances at the Federal Reserve's two-day conference on Monetary Policy Implementation and Transmission in the Post-Crisis period. Yellen is scheduled to make the opening remarks on Thursday morning, while Fed chair Stanley Fischer is scheduled to deliver a speech on the transmission of exchange rates to output and inflation on Thursday evening. Investors also await the release of data on U.S. retail sales, producer prices and consumer sentiment on Friday for further indications on whether the FOMC will approve a quarter-point rate hike when it meets next on Dec. 15-16. In recent months, Yellen has suggested that the Fed will employ a data-driven approach as it weighs its decision. A rate hike is viewed as bearish for gold, which is not attached to dividends or interest rates. Gold struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, fell slightly on Wednesday one day after surging above 99.50 to reach a fresh seven-month high. In U.S. afternoon trading, the index stood at 99.14, down 0.13% on the day. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Silver for December delivery fell 0.101 or 0.74% to 14.255 an ounce. Copper for December delivery was unchanged at 2.217 a pound.
