Title: WTI extends record slide amid U.S. supply build, progress in Iran talks
Date: 20150708
Content:
Investing.com -- WTI crude futures fell considerably on Wednesday extending one of the sharpest three-day declines over the last five years, as energy traders digested a modest U.S. supply build last week and slight progress in Iranian Nuclear negotiations. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for August delivery fell 0.75 or 1.43% to $51.59 a barrel. U.S. crude futures traded in a broad range between 50.92 and 52.85 during Wednesday's session. Since nearing $60 a barrel early last week, Texas Long Sweet futures are down roughly 14% amid an unexpected build in U.S. crude stockpiles and deliberate talks between Iran and its western negotiating partners in Vienna. WTI crude futures have moved lower in six consecutive sessions. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for August delivery inched up in U.S. afternoon trading paring mild losses earlier in the session. Brent crude futures continue to rally from Monday's precipitous fall, settling at 57.02 a barrel, up 0.17 or 0.30%. On Wednesday, brent crude traded between 55.88 and 57.75 during a choppy day of trading. In U.S. morning trading, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) said U.S. crude inventories increased by 400,000 barrels for the week ending on July 3, above expectations for a 500,000 draw. U.S. crude stockpiles are now at 465.8 million barrels, remaining near levels not seen for this time of year in at least the last 80 years. Any supply builds are viewed as bearish for crude amid a glut of oversupply in global markets over the last eight months. Elsewhere, Iran reportedly proposed "constructive solutions," according to the Iranian Students News Agency, in an effort to reach a final nuclear agreement with a group of six major western powers by Friday's deadline. During tense negotiations over the last several days in Austria, the two sides have encountered sticking points in terms of a United Nations arms embargo against Iran, UN missile sanctions and the rapidity of sanction easing. A nuclear deal is viewed as bearish for crude, as Iran reportedly hoards 30 million barrels of crude in its reserves ready for export. An outflow of Iranian oil could depress crude prices in a global market already oversaturated by a glut of oversupply. It is widely believed that Iran will ramp up exports if a plethora of severe economic sanctions are lifted by western powers. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, fell 0.43% to 96.47. On Tuesday, the dollar reached a monthly-high at 97.45. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates.
