Title: Gold gains in Asia as investors parse Fed speak
Date: 20151112
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices gained in Asia on Friday as investors parsed comments from Federal Reserve officials for insight on prospects of a rate hike next month. Gold for December delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange Comex division rose 0.28% to $1.084 a troy ounce. Silver for December delivery rose 0.18% to $14.285 a troy ounce. Copper for December delivery gained 0.13% to $2.169 a pound. Overnight, gold fell to a fresh five and a half year low, as investors continued to stake their bets on a December interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve following comments from a host of influential policymakers from the U.S. central bank on Thursday. On Thursday, a half dozen monetary policymakers from the Federal Open Market Committee, including chair Janet Yellen and vice chairman Stanley Fischer were scheduled to make public comments ahead of its highly anticipated meeting next month on Dec. 15-16. In welcoming remarks at the Fed's conference on Monetary Policy Implementation and Transmission in the Post-Crisis, Yellen declined to address the FOMC's near-term outlook regarding a potential rate hike or the current state of the U.S. economy. Instead, Yellen spoke briefly on the importance of assessing how monetary policy impacts the global economy in the post-crisis period. “At the peak of the crisis and during its immediate aftermath, unconventional monetary policy measures were designed and implemented by the Federal Reserve and other central banks around the world,” Yellen said. “The post-crisis period has offered policy makers an opportunity to assess a range of novel policy and operational issues associated with the conduct of monetary policy and the effectiveness of different policy options.” Minutes later, Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond president Jeffrey Lacker noted in a speech before The Cato Institute's 33rd Annual Monetary Policy Conference that monetary policy determines the "long-run path" of price levels, a notion he said has remained "essentially unchanged since the Great Recession." Lacker has dissented in each of the last two FOMC's meetings, voting each time for a quarter-point rate hike. Earlier at the conference, St. Louis Fed president James Bullard reiterated prior views that the FOMC's unemployment and inflation goals have been met, providing "no reason to hold rates" at near-zero levels. A stronger dollar remains a headwind to the U.S. economy, Federal Reserve Vice Chair Stanley Fischer said Thursday, noting accommodative monetary policy helped the economy withstand the impact. "While the dollar's appreciation and foreign weakness have been a sizable shock, the U.S. economy appears to be weathering them reasonably well, notwithstanding their large effects on certain sectors of the economy heavily exposed to international trade," Fischer said in remarks prepared for a conference hosted by the Federal Reserve Board. "Monetary policy has played a key role in achieving these outcomes through deferring liftoff relative to what was expected a little over a year ago," he added. A rate hike is viewed as bearish for gold, which is not attached to dividends and interest rates and struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. 
