Title: Crude falls slightly as investors digest Iran deal, U.S. supply draws
Date: 20150716
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude futures fell slightly on Thursday in a subdued trading session, as investors continued to digest the ramifications of a landmark Iranian Nuclear deal and a massive U.S. supply draw from earlier in the week. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for August delivery fell 0.55 or 1.05% to 50.86 a barrel. Texas Long Sweet Futures traded in a tight range between $51.02 and $52.16 on the session. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for September delivery traded at a low of 56.97 and a peak of 57.99, before settling at 56.90, up 0.21 or 0.38% on the session. Meanwhile, the spread between the international and U.S. benchmarks of crude stood at 6.04, above Wednesday's level of 5.69. Investors await Friday's weekly U.S. oil rig count from oil services firm  Baker Hughes  (NYSE:BHI) for further indications of the supply-demand balance in U.S. energy markets. Last week, the rig count edged up by five to 645, marking the second consecutive week of weekly builds. A week earlier, U.S. oil rigs rose by 12 to 640, ending a 29-week streak of weekly draws. On Wednesday, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said in its weekly Petroleum Status Report that crude inventories fell by 4.3 million barrels for the week ending on July 10. Analysts had expected a draw of 1.2 million barrels for the week. U.S. crude stockpiles are still at 461.4 million barrels, one of the highest levels at this time of year in at least 80 years. Although considerable declines in U.S. crude stockpiles are viewed as bearish for WTI crude amid a glut of oversupply in global markets, energy analysts expect significant draws in inventory levels in the summer months during the peak of the U.S. driving season. U.S. refineries operated at 95.3% of their operable capacity last week, while gasoline production decreased, averaging roughly 9.7 million barrels per day. Energy traders continue to focus on U.S. crude output, amid the prolonged race with Opec suppliers for control of global market share. Last week, U.S. production fell by 42,000 barrels per day to 9.562 million bpd, as output in the lower 48 states fell by 66,000. By comparison, Opec production in June soared to a three-year high as output in Saudi Arabia reached a record 10.6 million bpd. While Iran is expected to flood global markets by doubling its export level after a wide range of economic sanctions are lifted by western powers, it could still be several months before the Gulf state is able to ramp up its exports. The comprehensive nuclear deal reached on Tuesday still must complete a 60-day review from U.S. Congress and could be hampered by even further delays due to political wrangling. The deal is viewed as bearish for crude, as an outflow of Iranian oil could depress a market already saturated by oversupply. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, surged to a weekly-high of 97.91, before falling slightly back to 97.77. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. 
