Title: Copper futures decline after Greece debt talks collapse
Date: 20150217
Content:
Investing.com - Copper prices declined on Tuesday, after talks between Greece and euro zone finance ministers broke down, fuelling concerns over the country's future in the single currency region. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, copper for March delivery shed 0.9 cents, or 0.37%, to trade at $2.595 a pound during European morning hours. Futures were likely to find support at the $2.536, the low from February 12, and resistance at $2.642, the high from February 13. On Monday, copper for March delivery inched up 0.4 cents, or 0.15%, to end at $2.609 on hopes for a Greek debt deal. However, talks between Greece and its euro zone partners on the country’s debt crisis broke down after Athens rejected a proposal to extend its bailout. Greece’s current €240 billion bailout is due to expire at the end of the month and the new Greek government does not want it extended. Athens rejected a proposed six-month extension of the bailout on Monday, calling it "unacceptable". Athens has until Friday to request an extension otherwise its bailout will expire on February 28 and the country will run out of money. The clash between Greece and its creditors has sparked fears that it could trigger the country’s exit from the euro zone. Trading volume in the copper market was expected to drop in the coming days as investors in China are off from February 18 through 24 for the Lunar New Year holiday. The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for almost 40% of world consumption last year. Elsewhere on the Comex, gold futures for April inched down $3.00, or 0.24%, to trade at $1,224.10 a troy ounce, while silver futures for March delivery dipped 21.9 cents, or 1.27% to trade at $17.07 an ounce. Gold prices remained vulnerable amid ongoing expectations for the Federal Reserve to start raising U.S. interest rates as early as June. Investors will be focusing on Wednesday’s minutes of the latest Fed meeting for further indications on when the central bank may start to hike interest rates. Expectations of higher borrowing rates going forward is considered bearish for gold, as the precious metal struggles to compete with yield-bearing assets when rates are on the rise. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, traded at 94.45, down 0.01%. 
