Title: Gold prices tick up in Asia as markets await Fed views on rates
Date: 20151027
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices rose mildly in Asia on Wednesday with investors on the sidelines in the main ahead of the latest announcement from the Federal Reserve on monetary policy. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for December delivery traded up 0.09% to $1.166.80 a troy ounce. Silver for December delivery gained 0.11% to $15.880 a troy ounce. Copper for December delivery rose 0.16% to $2.368 a pound. Overnight, gold futures closed on Tuesday unchanged amid a slightly stronger dollar, as metal traders await the completion of the Federal Open Market Committee's two-day October meeting on Wednesday afternoon for further indications on the timing of an interest rate hike by the U.S. central bank. Although the FOMC has hinted that it will likely hold short-term interest rates at its current near-zero level at the meeting, Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen has still not ruled out a rate hike. The FOMC has left its benchmark Federal Funds Rate at its current level between zero and 0.25% for 55 consecutive meetings. At the FOMC's September monetary policy meeting, Yellen noted that the Fed will begin monetary policy normalization when it had seen "further improvement in the labor market," and was "reasonably confident" that inflation was moving toward its targeted goal of 2%. Still, the Fed downgraded its median inflation forecasts at the meeting to 0.3% for the end of 2015, while lowering inflation expectations for the end of next year to 1.7%. The Fed now expects that inflation will not reach its 2.0% target until 2018. Days later, however, Yellen indicated that the timing could be appropriate to raise the Federal Funds Rate before the end of the year, as transitory effects dragging down inflation from lower energy prices and a stronger dollar continued to recede. Shortly after Yellen's comments, though, a dismal U.S. national employment report from September provided greater uncertainty with the timing of a rate hike. The U.S. Department of Labor will release two additional U.S. national employment reports before the FOMC's December meeting, providing the Fed with enough data on the state of the U.S. labor market to help guide their decision. Accordingly, the CME Group's (O:O:CME) Fed Watch has determined that there is only a 5% chance of a rate hike in October, versus a 30% probability of one at the FOMC's meeting on Dec. 15-16. 
