Title: Gold struggles near 3-month low, copper slides to 6-year trough
Date: 20151111
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices languished near three-month lows on Wednesday, while copper prices fell to the lowest level since July 2009, as the possibility of higher borrowing costs in the U.S. and slower global economic growth weighed on the metals. Gold for December delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange inched down $1.10, or 0.1%, to trade at $1,087.40 a troy ounce during U.S. morning hours. A day earlier, gold prices tacked on 40 cents, or 0.04%. Prices fell to a three-month low of $1,084.50 on November 6 after data showing the U.S. economy created more jobs than expected in October bolstered expectations for a December rate hike by the Federal Reserve. The U.S. dollar held near seven-month highs against a basket of six other major currencies amid expectations for tighter monetary policy in the U.S. in the coming months. Dollar-priced commodities become more expensive to investors holding other currencies when the greenback gains. Investors now looked ahead to key U.S. data later in the week for further indications on the strength of the economy and the likelihood of a near-term rate hike. The U.S. is slated to release data on retail sales, producer prices and consumer sentiment on Friday. Fed Chair Janet Yellen said last week that a December rate hike was a "live possibility" if justified by upcoming economic data. Gold prices have lost 8.5% since mid-October as investors recalibrated their expectations of U.S. monetary policy in response to hawkish signals from the Fed. Expectations of higher borrowing rates going forward is considered bearish for gold, as the precious metal struggles to compete with yield-bearing assets when rates are on the rise. Elsewhere in metals trading, copper prices slumped to a fresh six-year low after the latest industrial production figures out of China added to concerns over the health of the world's second-biggest economy. The soft data followed disappointing Chinese trade and inflation figures earlier in the week. The downbeat reports reinforced the view that the economy remains in the midst of a gradual slowdown which will require policymakers in Beijing to roll out more measures to boost growth in coming months. The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for almost 40% of world consumption. 
