Title: Gold relatively flat, as investors digest historic Iran, Greek deals
Date: 20150714
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold futures experienced little movement on Tuesday amid a flat dollar, even as Iran reached a comprehensive nuclear deal with its western partners and Greece prime minister Alexis Tsipras sought support from Parliament for a historic bailout from its euro zone creditors. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for August delivery fell 1.10 or 0.10% to 1,154.30 a troy ounce. Gold futures traded in a tight range between 1,151.90 and 1,158.70. Since opening above $1,200 an ounce on June 19, the precious metal is down by roughly 4%. Gold likely gained support at $1,144.80, the low from July 13 and was met with resistance at 1,174.40, the high from July 6. In Athens, members of Parliament continued to assess Monday's landmark agreement between Greece and its troika of international creditors on a three-year, €86 bailout before Wednesday's critical vote. The deal requires Parliament to ratify four measures related to tax, pension and budget reforms in order to trigger a vote from six other national parliaments throughout the euro zone. George Stathakis, Greece's economy minister, predicted that Tsipras will wait until after Wednesday's vote to reshuffle his cabinet, but added that the changes could comes as early as today. Speaking exclusively with Bloomberg, Stathakis said he believes Greek banks will not reopen until after the bailout program is approved by the other national parliaments as early as the start of next week. Meanwhile, officials from the International Monetary Fund urged the euro zone to provide Greece with a more manageable debt sustainability program, by offering a 30-year grace period for the cash-strapped nation to repay its debts. While the European creditors are considering pushing back repayment dates and slashing interest rates on loans to Greece through the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), euro zone officials have been reluctant to offer a haircut on its significant debt obligations. In addition, IMF officials warned that Greece's debt level could reach 200% of its GDP in the near future if debt sustainability measures are not taken immediately. "The dramatic deterioration in debt sustainability points to the need for debt relief on a scale that would need to go well beyond what has been under consideration to date and what has been proposed by the ESM," the IMF said in a statement. Gold is viewed as a safe haven for investors in periods of severe economic instability. In Vienna, Iran and the group of P5 + 1 member states agreed on a final accord on a long-term nuclear deal, hours after extending a deadline for the third time over the last three weeks. The U.S. Congress will begin a 60-day review period once it receives a submission of the deal, Sen. Bob Corker (R, Tennessee) said in a statement. The period could be extended by an additional 12 days if the Senate and House of Representatives decide to submit a joint resolution to the White House. After falling more than 2% following the completion of the deal, WTI crude futures rose sharply several hours later. In U.S. afternoon trading, WTI crude for August delivery peaked above $53 a barrel, gaining roughly 1.5% for the session. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, fell 0.09% to 96.84. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold and crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Investors await the start of Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen's two-day testimony before Congress on Wednesday for further indications on the timing of a highly-anticipated interest rate hike. On Friday, Yellen said the Fed anticipates raising interest rates later this year if the U.S. economy and labor markets continue to show improvement in the coming weeks. Silver for September delivery fell 0.134 or 0.87% to 15.323 an ounce. Copper for September delivery dipped 0.011 or 0.44% to 2.533 a pound.  
