Title: NYMEX crude treads water in early Asia as API data ahead
Date: 20150615
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices were flat to weaker in early Asia on Tuesday with investors looking ahead to an industry snapshot of U.S. stockpiles.On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for August delivery fell 0.03% to $60.05 a barrel.The American Petroleum Institute will release figures on U.S. crude and refined products output last week that will set the tone for more closely-watched data from the Department of Energy on Wednesday.Overnight, crude futures inched down on Monday, as the head of the United Nations opened Yemen peace talks in Switzerland by urging sides to resolve the crisis by reaching a humanitarian ceasefire in the four-month long crisis.On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for August delivery fell 0.74 cents or 1.14% to $63.90 a barrel on Monday.In Geneva, UN general secretary Ban Ki-Moon called for an immediate two-week ceasefire for Ramadan between Saudi Arabia and Iranian-backed Houthi rebels in Yemen. Constant air bombardments from a Saudi-led coalition has resulted in the deaths of more than 2,600 people since fighting began in March. The UN has called Yemen's humanitarian crisis "catastrophic," asserting that approximately 80% of civilians in the war-torn nation are in need of emergency aid."We do not have a moment to lose," Ban said at a news conference on Monday. "I hope this week starts the beginning of the end of the fighting."Yemen is strategically located on the Bab el-Mandab, a strait that connects the Gulf of Aden with the Red Sea. In mid-November, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) ranked the Bab el-Mandab the fourth-largest chokepoint in the world for global oil transport (3.8 million barrels per day). The strait, which is only 18 miles wide at its narrowest point, separates Djibouti from Yemen at the tip of the Gulf of Aden.A host of oil-rich producers including Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Qatar operate a pipeline that carries oil from the Mediterranean Sea and Suez Canal through Alexandria to the northernmost point of the Red Sea. Further south, the Saudi East-West pipeline transports oil across the country from the Red Sea to the Persian Gulf. A third pipeline, the Sudan oil pipeline, brings oil south into Africa through the Sudanese capital of Khartoum. Energy traders are sensitive to any geopolitical risky news involving Saudi Arabia, the world's largest exporter of crude.Traders also await the expiration of June WTI options on Wednesday. 
