Title: Gold prices down in Asia as market more confident of Fed hike
Date: 20151209
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices fell in Asia with markets increasingly confident of a Federal Reserve rate hike next week On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for February delivery fell 0.33% to $1,072.90 a troy ounce. Silver futures for March delivery eaed 0.06% to $14.180 a troy ounce, while copper futures for March delivery rose 0.12% to $2.068 a pound. In Asia, Japan reported corporate goods prices for November fell 0.1% month-on-month, the eighth straight monthly drop, compared to a fall of 0.3% seen. Australia said employment data showed a 71,400 jobs gain in November, compared to a drop of 10,000 jobs seen at a participation rate of 65.3%, above the 65% expected, for an unemployment rate of 5.8%, well below the 6% expected. Also in Australia, annual MI Inflation expectations for December came in at 4.0%, up from 3.5% in November. Separately, the New Zealand dollar held gains Thursday after a cut in the official cash rate of 25 basis points to 2.5% as investors mulled whether the next step was up. Overnight, gold futures inched up amid a sharply weaker dollar, as investors continued to prepare for next week's critical Federal Reserve meeting where the U.S. central bank is largely expected to raise short-term interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade. After reaching near one-month highs in the U.S. morning session, gold fell back amid a wave of profit taking before turning positive just before the close of trading. The precious metal still remains near six-year lows from last week, as commodity traders brace for a likely rate hike from the Federal Open Market Committee at its two-day meeting on December 15-16. A bevy of FOMC members, including Fed chair Janet Yellen have sent strong indications that the Fed will raise rates at the meeting, as headwinds restraining economic growth continue to fade and the labor market nears maximum employment. Last Friday, the U.S. Labor Department said in a relatively positive report that nonfarm payrolls in November increased by 211,000 while the unemployment rate remained unchanged at 5.0%. The Federal Funds Rate, the rate offered on interbank, overnight loans at the Fed, has remained at its current level between zero and 0.25% since December, 2008, shortly after the start of the Financial Crisis. Any increase of the targeted range for the Federal Funds Rate is expected to be modest at 25 basis points. The FOMC last approved a rate hike in June, 2006. In September, all but four members of the FOMC judged that it would be appropriate to begin raising the target range for the Federal Funds Rate before the end of the year. The FOMC voted 9-1 to leave rates unchanged in each of the last two meetings, with Richmond Fed president Jeffrey Lacker serving as the lone dissenter both times. A rate hike is viewed as bearish for gold, which is not attached to interest rates and struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets. Although Yellen noted in a speech last week that improving conditions in the U.S. economy have met the FOMC's expectations since it last met in October, she emphasized that long-term inflation still remains considerably below the Fed's targeted goal of 2%. In the FOMC's last projection, it estimated that Core PCE inflation will pick up noticeably next year and will rise further in 2017, but will not reach 2% until 2018. The Core PCE Index, the Fed's preferred gauge for inflation, strips out volatile food and energy prices. 
