Title: NYMEX crude dips in Asia on profit taking, Fed signal on rates
Date: 20151028
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices fell in Asia Thursday on profit taking and a stronger signal from the Federal Reserve on an interest rate hike by the end of the year. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for December delivery fell 0.28% to $45.81 a barrel. On Wednesday, the Fed kept interest rates unchanged on Wednesday and in a direct reference to its next policy meeting put a December rate hike firmly in play. "In determining whether it will be appropriate to raise the target range at its next meeting, the committee will assess progress - both realized and expected - toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation," the Fed said in a statement after its latest two-day policy meeting. The central bank also downplayed recent global financial market turmoil and said the U.S. labor market was still healing despite a slower pace of job growth. Overnight, U.S. crude futures surged more than 6% on Wednesday, enjoying one of its strongest one-day move in two months, amid bullish supply data which revealed a lower than expected inventory build last week. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude for December delivery wavered between $46.62 and $49.23 a barrel, before closing at $49.04, up 2.23 or 4.76% on the day. With the productive session, brent futures ended a four-day losing streak. North Sea brent crude is now up by more than 1.5% over the last month. Meanwhile, the spread between the international and U.S. domestic benchmarks of crude stood at $3.18, below Tuesday's level of $3.61 at the close of trading. On Wednesday morning, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said U.S. commercial crude oil inventories increased by 3.37 million barrels for the week ending on Oct. 23, slightly below expectations of a 3.41 million barrel gain. It also came one day after the American Petroleum Institute reported an increase of 4.1 million barrels last week. At 480.0 million barrels, U.S. crude oil inventories remain near levels not seen for this time of year in at least 80 years. U.S. crude production inched up 16,000 barrels to 9.112 million bpd. Crude output remains sharply below its level from this spring when it surged above 9.6 million bpd to reach its highest level in more than 40 years. Total motor gasoline inventories decreased by 1.1 million barrels last week, while distillate fuel inventories fell by 3.0 million barrels. Crude prices worldwide are down more than 40% since OPEC roiled global markets last November with its decision to keep its production ceiling above 30 million barrels per day. The strategy was aimed at crowding out U.S. shale producers in an effort to regain market share. As a result, oil prices have plunged amid a glut of oversupply. 
