Title: NYMEX crude weaker in early Asia after API crude build, gasoline drop
Date: 20150428
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices eased in early Asia on Wednesday with investors focused on continued tensions in Yemen and supply data from the U.S.On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for June delivery fell 0.32% to $56.88 a barrel.The American Petroleum Institute said that crude oil stocks last week rose 4.2 million barrels, while distillate supplies eased 746,000 barrels and gasoline stocks fell 408,000 barrels.On Wednesday, the U.S. Department of Energy will release more closely watched figures on the same data.Overnight, crude futures were mixed on Tuesday, as prices rebounded after falling in morning trading amid an erroneous report of a maritime conflict in the Strait of Hormuz.A patrol boat containing members from the Iran Revolutionary Guard reportedly fired shots at the M/V Maersk Tigris, after it crossed into Iranian territory on Tuesday morning before intercepting the Marshall Islands-flagged vessel, according to the Pentagon. While maritime laws allow innocent passage into the strait, much of the area is still located in Iranian territory.When the Iranian patrol ordered the commercial vessel deeper into Iran waters, the captain of the ship reportedly refused, prompting the firing of several rounds of shots. The ship then sent out a distressed call, according to NBC News, that caused the U.S. Navy to dispatch a destroyer – the U.S.S. Farragut and several planes to observe the situation.Although the vessel remains under Iranian control, a Pentagon official told NBC News that there "probably is no military solution" to the issue and it remains a legal or diplomatic one that probably will not involve military intervention.Hours later, Saudi Arabia reacted to reports of Iran's violation of a provisional no-fly zone by reportedly bombing an empty passenger jet at an airport in Yemen. The closure of the run is expected to delay delivery of aid packages and evacuations from the war-torn country.It came after a report from the United Nations that the number of people that have been displaced from Yemen has exceeded 300,000, more than twice the previous estimates. The UN reportedly became close to brokering a deal between Saudi Arabia and a group of Shiite-led Houthi rebels last month, before talks collapsed amid a series of Saudi air strikes. More than 3,000 people in Yemen are feared dead from the month-long air campaign.While Yemen is considered to be a minor exporter of crude, it is strategically located on the Bab el-Mandeb strait, one of the largest chokepoints of oil. Energy traders are also sensitive to any geopolitical risks involving Saudi Arabia, one of the world's largest crude exporters.On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude for June delivery fell 0.21 or 0.32% to 64.62 a barrel on Tuesday. 
