Title: Gold prices dip in Asia in thin deals as key regional markets on holiday
Date: 20150716
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices dipped slightly in Asia on Friday with key regional markets shut for a holiday and no major data releases planned. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for August delivery fell 0.08% to $1,143.00 a troy ounce. Silver for September delivery fell 0.21% to $14.953 a troy ounce. Copper for September delivery dipped 0.002 or 0.09% to 2.519 a pound. Markets in many regional trading centers are closed today to mark the Eid holidays, including Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia. Overnight, gold futures continued their steady decline on Thursday one day after touching down to 2015 yearly lows, amid positive developments in the Greek Debt crisis and mixed U.S. economic data. Gold has now closed lower in six of the last seven sessions in spite of instability in the Chinese economy and slow moving talks in the Greek Debt and Iranian Nuclear negotiations. On Wednesday, gold plummeted to 1,132.80 its lowest level in more than seven months, before rallying slightly back above 1,140. Gold is typically viewed as a safe-haven for investors in period of severe economic uncertainty. After temporary resolutions in both longstanding disputes earlier this week, investors could be wary of even further declines in gold. Hours after the Greek parliament approved four measures required to complete a comprehensive third bailout from euro zone creditors, the European Central Bank (ECB) granted the cash-strapped nation €900 million in a move that could help banks throughout the nation reopen. In addition, euro zone officials finalized an agreement to provide Greece with €7 billion in short-term bridge financing that will allow it to meet a €3.5 billion obligation to the ECB next week. In the U.S. investors continued to digest market-moving comments from Janet Yellen on Wednesday when the head of the Federal Reserve sent strong indications that current economic conditions are likely to justify an interest rate hike at some point this year. Yellen's comments before Congress during her semi-annual Hawkins-Humphrey testimony likely signal that the Fed will raise its benchmark Federal Funds Rate during FOMC meetings in either September or December. Gold, which is not attached to dividends or interest rates, struggles to compete with high yield bearing assets in periods of rising interest rates. 
