Title: Gold prices gain in Asia on rebound with further China easing watched
Date: 20151108
Content:
Investing.com - Gold rose in Asia on Monday from a rebound on last week's sharp decline with expectations China may move to further stimulate its economy after disappointing trade figures at the weekend. Gold for December delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange rose 0.42% to $1,092.30 a troy ounce. Also on the Comex, silver futures for December delivery gained 0.20% to $14.720 a troy ounce. Elsewhere in metals trading, copper for December delivery inched up 0.15% at $2.246 a pound. Last week, gold prices tumbled to the lowest level in three months on Friday, after data showing the U.S. economy created more jobs than expected in October bolstered expectations for a rate hike next month. Gold prices are down nearly 8% since October 28, the first of its current eight-session losing streak. The precious metal is nearing its six-and-a-half-year-low from July, when it fell below the $1,080-level. The Labor Department reported that the U.S. economy added 271,000 jobs last month, the largest increase since December and easily surpassing expectations of 180,000. The unemployment rate inched down to 5.0%, the lowest since April 2008. Dollar-priced commodities become more expensive to investors holding other currencies when the greenback gains. On Wednesday, in testimony before the House Financial Services Committee, Fed Chair Janet Yellen sent strong hints that the central bank could raise short-term interest rates next month if upcoming economic data were supportive. Market players have been trying to gauge when the U.S. central bank will raise interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade after recent economic reports offered a mixed picture of the U.S. economy. The timing of a Fed rate hike has been a constant source of debate in the markets in recent months. Expectations of higher borrowing rates going forward is considered bearish for gold, as the precious metal struggles to compete with yield-bearing assets when rates are on the rise. The latest trade figures out of China added to concerns over the health of the world's second-biggest economy. Data released Sunday revealed that China's trade surplus widened to $61.6 billion last month from $60.3 billion in September, missing forecasts for a surplus of $64.8 billion. Chinese exports slumped 6.9% from a year earlier, worse than forecasts for a decline of 3.0%, while imports plunged 18.8%, compared to expectations for a drop of 16.0%. A slowdown in domestic demand indicated a recovery in the broader economy remains fragile and may need further government stimulus. The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for almost 40% of world consumption last year. In the week ahead, investors will be looking ahead to Friday’s U.S. data on retail sales, producer prices and consumer sentiment for fresh indications on the likelihood of a December rate hike. Tuesday’s inflation figures from China will also be in focus, along with Friday’s preliminary data on economic growth in the euro area. 
