Title: NYMEX crude down in Asia despite China, Japan industrial looks
Date: 20151213
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices dipped further in Asia on Monday despite steady industrial looks from Japan and China as supply concerns dominate the market. Elsewhere, on the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in January fell 0.29% to $35.52 a barrel. In Japan, the Tankan manufacturing index for large firms was steady at plus-12 for the fourth quarter, while the large non-manufacturing index dipped to plus-18 from plus-19. A positive figure indicates the majority of firms see better business conditions. China on Saturday said that industrial production in November rose 6.2% year-on-year, while retail sales gained 11.2% and fixed investment increased 10.2%. All three economic indicators published by the National Bureau of Statistics beat estimates of economists, with industrial output growth standing out with a far better performance than expected. After lending and imports topped forecasts earlier in the week, November has ended up offering some signs that the country's economic slowdown is stabilizing after the government's additional monetary and fiscal stimulus this year. In the week ahead, investors will be focusing their attention on Wednesday’s outcome of the final Fed meeting of 2015. U.S. economic reports on inflation, manufacturing activity and industrial production will also be closely watched ahead of the rate announcement. Wednesday’s survey data on euro zone private sector growth will be scrutinized by market watchers for signs of a recovery in the region. On Monday, European Central Bank President Mario Draghi is to speak at an event in Italy. Last week, oil prices crashed to fresh seven-year lows on Friday, after a bearish report from the International Energy Agency projected that a global supply glut could worsen next year. In its December oil market report released Friday, the Paris-based IEA projected global demand growth in 2016 to slow considerably, widening the gulf in the supply-demand imbalance worldwide. Next year, the IEA anticipates that global demand will grow by 1.2 million barrels per day, down from a previous estimate of 1.8 million. “As inventories continue to swell into 2016, there will still be a lot of oil weighing on the market,” the IEA said. The bearish estimates came one day after the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries said it pumped the most crude in more than three years last month, adding to concerns over a glut in global supplies. In its own monthly oil market report published Thursday, OPEC said crude production rose by 230,100 barrels a day in November to 31.695 million, the most since April 2012, as the cartel pressed on with a strategy to protect market share and pressure competing producers. Oil futures are down approximately 14% since OPEC failed to agree on output targets earlier this month. As a result, crude prices are expected to remain stubbornly low amid a glut of oversupply on global energy markets. On the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for January delivery sank $1.80, or 4.53%, on Friday to close the week at $37.93 a barrel. It earlier fell to $37.36, a level not seen since the depths of the global financial crisis in December 2008.  
