Title: Gold / Silver / Copper futures - weekly outlook: July 6 - 10
Date: 20150705
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices stabilized on Friday, recovering from three-and-a-half month lows as the dollar slid lower in holiday thinned trade and investors remained wary ahead of a critical weekend referendum in Greece. U.S. markets remained closed on Friday for the Independence Day holiday. Gold futures for August delivery closed at $1,167.8 a troy ounce, off Thursday’s lows of $1,155.80. For the week, the contract lost 0.83%. Gold firmed up as the dollar slid lower after disappointing U.S. jobs data tempered expectations for higher interest rates later this year. The Labor Department reported Thursday that the U.S. economy added 223,000 jobs in June, compared to expectations for jobs growth of 230,000. Hourly earnings were flat in June, missing expectations for growth of 0.2%. The Federal Reserve has said that continued strengthening in the labor market is a key factor in deciding when to start hiking interest rates. Rising interest rates would weigh on gold prices, because the precious metal doesn't yield interest, while boosting the dollar, in which it is priced. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, was at 96.38 late Friday, little changed for the day. For the week, the index still added 0.67%, boosted by weakness in the euro as Greece’s debt crisis escalated. Investors remained cautious ahead of a referendum in Greece on whether to accept or reject the terms of an international bailout deal, which could set the county on a course for an exit from the euro zone. Uncertainty over Greece has so far failed to spur increased investor demand for gold, often perceived as a safe-haven asset. Elsewhere in metals trading, silver futures for September delivery ended up 0.58% at $15.65 a troy ounce, trimming the week’s losses to 1.31%. Copper for September delivery slid to $2.618 a pound late Friday, to end the week 0.15% lower. In the week ahead, investors will be awaiting the outcome of Sunday’s referendum in Greece. The week will bring a look at U.S. service sector activity and the minutes of the Fed’s June meeting. Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of these and other significant events likely to affect the markets. Monday, July 6 Germany is to release data on factory orders. Switzerland is to publish a report on consumer inflation. Canada is to publish a report on the Ivey business index. In the U.S., the Institute of Supply Management is to release data on service sector activity. Tuesday, July 7 New Zealand is to release private sector data on business confidence. The Reserve Bank of Australia is to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish its rate statement, which outlines economic conditions and the factors affecting the monetary policy decision. The Swiss National Bank is to publish data on its foreign currency reserves. This data is closely scrutinized for indications of the size of the bank’s operations in currency markets. The U.K. is to release data on manufacturing and industrial production. Both Canada and the U.S. are to release reports on the trade balance. Wednesday, July 8 Japan is to release data on the current account. The U.K. government is to release its annual budget statement. Canada is to publish data on building permits. Later Wednesday, the Federal Reserve is to publish the minutes of its June meeting. Thursday, July 9 Japan is to publish data on core machinery orders. Australia is to publish its monthly employment report. China is to release data on consumer and producer price inflation. Later in the day, the Bank of England is to announce its benchmark interest rate. The U.S. is to release the weekly report on initial jobless claims. Friday, July 10 Australia is to release data on home loans. The U.K. is to release data on the trade balance. Canada is to publish its monthly employment report. Fed Chair Janet Yellen is to speak at an event in Cleveland; her comments will be closely watched. 
