Title: Gold prices dip in early Asia with focus on Fed, China
Date: 20150727
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices dipped in early Asia on Tuesday with the focus on the upcoming Federal Reserve meeting on Wednesday as well as volatility in China's stock markets. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for December delivery fell 0.27% to $1,093.90 a troy ounce. Silver for September delivery dropped 0.48% to $14.535 a troy ounce. Copper for September delivery rose 0.37% to $2.354 a pound, as investors look for signs of support after China's stock markets hit an eight-year low overnight amid a decision by regulators to increase equity purchases by the State-backed China Securities Finance Corporation. Last year, China accounted for almost 40% of world copper consumption. China is the world's largest consumer of copper and second-largest consumer of gold. Overnight, gold futures rallied on Monday experiencing their highest one-day gains in more than a month, as investors covered shorts following one of the most severe routs over the last five years. Last week, gold plunged to a five-year low amid strong indications that the Federal Reserve will lift interest rates at some point this year. The Fed has kept short-term rates at its current level between zero and 0.2% since the end of the Financial Crisis in an effort to jumpstart the U.S. economy. It has also been nearly a decade since the Fed has raised its benchmark Federal Funds Rate. Investors await the start of the Federal Open Market Committee's (FOMC) two-day meeting starting on Tuesday for further hints on the timing of lift-off. Earlier last week, Federal Reserve of St. Louis president James Bullard said there is a 50% chance the FOMC will raise rates during its September meeting. Gold, which is not attached to dividends or interest rates, struggles to compete with high yield bearing assets in periods of rising rates. On Monday, the U.S. Department of Commerce said total durable goods orders for the month of July rose by 3.4%, above expectations of a 3.1% gain. Durable goods received a boost from transportation, the subset in which aircraft orders are measured. Excluding transportation, durable goods rose 0.8% above consensus estimates of a 0.5% monthly gain. Orders for Core durable goods, which also excludes airlines data, rose by 0.8% for July, above expectations for a 0.5% gain. Defying a long-term trend, total durable goods order increased on a monthly basis for only the third time since last July. 
