Title: Crude prices surge as Iran talks continue, fighting in Yemen escalates
Date: 20150401
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude oil prices surged more than 5% on the penultimate day of trading this week, as negotiations concerning Iran's nuclear program dragged into the last-minute on Wednesday evening in Switzerland. While Iran and its negotiating partners indicated that progress had been achieved on most aspects of the complex agreement, there were still key issues that needed to be resolved on Wednesday during high-level talks in Lausanne. A central issue of contention appears to be whether rigid economic sanctions against Iran will be lifted in the next three months before an official agreement could be ratified. A loosening of sanctions could inundate an already saturated global oil market with millions of barrels of Iranian oil. Since the economic sanctions were levied more than three years ago, crude exports from Iran have been restricted to roughly one million barrels per day. Iran reportedly has 30 million barrels of oil stored in offshore tankers ready for export, according to Reuters. The added supply in the Persian Gulf could be the next driver of lower oil prices. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for May delivery soared 5.90% or 2.81 in U.S. afternoon trading to $50.41 a barrel, before falling back to $49.93 at Wednesday's close. Earlier on Wednesday morning, WTI crude stood at $47.95 ahead of the release of the Energy Information Administration's (EIA) Weekly Inventory Report. For the week ending on Mar. 27, WTI crude inventories nation increased by 4.8 million barrels, above expectations of a 4.2 million increase for the week. The rising supply levels pushed inventories to 471.4 million barrels – the most in the U.S. in more than 80 years. Shortly after the release, WTI crude futures gained roughly 85 cents to reach $48.45 – up 1.79% on the trading day. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for May delivery surged 2.38 or 4.33% to $57.50 a barrel in U.S. afternoon trading, before sliding back to $57.00. The spread between the international and U.S. domestic benchmarks stood at $7.07, one day after closing at $7.51 at Tuesday's close. As negotiations in Lausanne reportedly moved into "double overtime," according to German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier (via the Associated Press), foreign ministers from France, China and Russia left the meetings in frustration. While Iran foreign minister Mohammad Javad-Zarif told the Islamic Republic News Agency (IRNA) that progress led to solutions on most issues, United Kingdom counterpart Philip Hammond told the BBC that "key issues still needed to be tackled." Nevertheless, the sides had reached a "broad framework of understanding," Hammond added. On Tuesday, the negotiating parties missed the third deadline imposed by both sides over the last year. Back in the United States leaders from both major parties pressed the State Department to leave the negotiations if a favorable deal could not be reached. Speaking to Fox News, Sen. Tom Cotton said, "you have to be willing to walk away from the table to reapply leverage to Iran. Meanwhile, Howard Dean, the former head of the Democratic National Committee, told MSNBC that the United States is negotiating from a stronger position than it did several years ago, since Iran is "desperate to get rid of sanctions." Elsewhere, fighting in Yemen between Saudi Arabian-led troops and Shiite-backed Houthi rebels continued to escalate. In spite of a week of Saudi airstrikes, tanks containing Houthi fighters reportedly reached the southern city of Aden, the main foothold of Yemen president Abd Rabbu-Mansour. Earlier on Wednesday, at least 35 people reportedly were killed during a blast at a Yemen dairy plant that reportedly had been occupied by the rebels. Oil traders are sensitive to risky geopolitical news involving Saudi Arabia, the world's largest oil exporter.   
