Title: Crude oil rallies over 1% but supply glut worries still weigh
Date: 20150130
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil futures rallied over 1% on Friday, on the back of a weaker dollar but the commodity still remained within close distance of a nearly six-year low as ongoing concerns over a glut in global supplies continued to weigh. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, U.S. crude oil for delivery in March traded $0.56 or 1.26% higher to $45.10 a barrel during European early afternoon trade. Prices rose $0.08 or 0.18% on Thursday to settle at $44.53. Futures were likely to find support at $43.58, Thursday's low and a nearly six-year low and resistance at $46.55, the high from January 27. Oil prices have fallen nearly 60% since June as the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries resisted calls to cut output, while the U.S. pumped at the fastest pace in more than three decades, creating a glut in global supplies.The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, slipped 0.27% to 94.71, moving away from last Friday's more than 11-year highs of 95.77.Oil prices typically strengthen when the U.S. currency weakens as the dollar-priced commodity becomes cheaper for holders of other currencies. The commodity hit a nearly six-year low on Thursday after the Federal Reserve indicated that interest rates could start to rise around mid-year. Following its policy meeting, the Fed said it would keep rates on hold at least until June and reiterated its pledge to be patient on raising interest rates, while acknowledging the solid economic recovery and strong growth in the labor market. Market participants were eyeing preliminary U.S. data on fourth quarter growth as well as reports on business activity in the Chicago region and revised data on consumer sentiment, due later in the day, for further indications on the strength of the economic recovery. Elsewhere, on the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for March delivery jumped $0.54, or 1.10%, to hit $49.67 a barrel, with the spread between the Brent and the WTI crude contracts stranding at $4.57. 
