Title: Gold / Silver / Copper futures - weekly outlook: October 19 -23
Date: 20151018
Content:
Investing.com - Gold futures halted a five-day win streak on Friday, but still posted healthy gains for the week, amid growing indications the Federal Reserve will hold off on hiking interest rates until next year. Gold for December delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange slumped $4.40, or 0.37%, on Friday to close at $1,183.10 a troy ounce. A day earlier, gold rallied to $1,191.70, the most since June 22, amid speculation the Fed would not raise rates until sometime next year, with weak economic reports feeding that view. For the week, prices of the precious metal rose $27.70, or 2.36%, the second straight weekly gain. Prices of the precious metal have been well supported in recent sessions amid reduced expectations the Fed will hike interest rates before the years end. A delay in raising interest rates would be seen as bullish for gold, as it decreases the relative cost of holding on to the metal, which doesn't offer investors any similar guaranteed payout. The dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, inched up on Friday to end at 94.76. The greenback still ended the week down 0.31%, the third consecutive weekly decline. Earlier in the week, the index dropped to a seven-week low below the 94.00-level, as expectations build that the Fed will hold off on raising interest rates before the end of the year. The timing of a Fed rate hike has been a constant source of debate in the markets in recent months. The U.S. central bank has two more scheduled policy meetings before the end of the year, in late-October and mid-December. Also on the Comex, silver futures for December delivery shed 5.0 cents, or 0.31%, on Friday to settle at $16.11 a troy ounce by close of trade. On the week, silver futures jumped 31.9 cents, or 1.87%. Elsewhere in metals trading, copper for December delivery dropped 1.9 cents, or 0.8%, on Friday to settle at $2.403 a pound. For the week, copper prices dipped 1.0 cent, or 0.41%, as persistent worries about future demand from top consumer China weighed. Copper prices have been under heavy selling pressure in recent weeks as fears of a China-led global economic slowdown spooked traders and rattled sentiment. The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for almost 40% of world consumption last year. In the week ahead, investors will be focusing on Chinese third quarter economic growth data due on Monday amid lingering concerns over the health of the world's second biggest economy. The outcome of Thursday’s European Central Bank meeting will also be in focus amid speculation the central bank could ramp up its monetary stimulus program. Investing.com has compiled a list of these and other significant events likely to affect the markets. Monday, October 19 China is to release data on third quarter economic growth as well as reports on industrial production and fixed asset investment. Later in the day, Fed Governor Lael Brainard is to speak at an event in Chicago. Tuesday, October 20 The U.S. is to release data on building permits and housing starts. New York Fed President William Dudley and Fed Governor Jerome Powell are both to speak at an event in New York. Wednesday, October 21 The Bank of Canada is to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish its rate statement, which outlines economic conditions and the factors affecting the monetary policy decision. The announcement is to be followed by a press conference. Thursday, October 22 The ECB is to announce its monetary policy decision. The rate announcement will be followed by a post-policy meeting press conference with President Mario Draghi. The U.S. is to produce data on initial jobless claims and existing home sales. Friday, October 23 The euro zone is to release survey data on manufacturing and service sector activity. 
