Title: Gold ticks up amid weaker dollar, as traders await key Fed meeting
Date: 20151209
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold futures inched up amid a sharply weaker dollar, as investors continued to prepare for next week's critical Federal Reserve meeting where the U.S. central bank is largely expected to raise short-term interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for February delivery traded in a broad range between $1,069.10 and $1,084.90 an ounce before settling at $1,076.50, up 1.20 or 0.12% on the session. After reaching near one-month highs in the U.S. morning session, gold fell back amid a wave of profit taking before turning positive just before the close of trading. The precious metal still remains near six-year lows from last week, as commodity traders brace for a likely rate hike from the Federal Open Market Committee at its two-day meeting on December 15-16. Gold likely gained support at $1,049.60, the low from Dec. 2 and was met with resistance at $1,091.30, the high from Nov. 10. Gold has remained in a holding pattern over the last three sessions in cautious trade, as investors await for next week's key monetary policy decision from the FOMC. A bevy of FOMC members, including Fed chair Janet Yellen have sent strong indications that the Fed will raise rates at the meeting, as headwinds restraining economic growth continue to fade and the labor market nears maximum employment. Last Friday, the U.S. Labor Department said in a relatively positive report that nonfarm payrolls  in November increased by 211,000 while the unemployment rate remained unchanged at 5.0%. The Federal Funds Rate, the rate offered on interbank, overnight loans at the Fed, has remained at its current level between zero and 0.25% since December, 2008, shortly after the start of the Financial Crisis. Any increase of the targeted range for the Federal Funds Rate is expected to be modest at 25 basis points. The FOMC last approved a rate hike in June, 2006. In September, all but four members of the FOMC judged that it would be appropriate to begin raising the target range for the Federal Funds Rate before the end of the year. The FOMC voted 9-1 to leave rates unchanged in each of the last two meetings, with Richmond Fed president Jeffrey Lacker serving as the lone dissenter both times. A rate hike is viewed as bearish for gold, which is not attached to interest rates and struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets. Although Yellen noted in a speech last week that improving conditions in the U.S. economy have met the FOMC's expectations since it last met in October, she emphasized that long-term inflation still remains considerably below the Fed's targeted goal of 2%. In the FOMC's last projection, it estimated that Core PCE inflation will pick up noticeably next year and will rise further in 2017, but will not reach 2% until 2018. The Core PCE Index, the Fed's preferred gauge for inflation, strips out volatile food and energy prices. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, fell by more than 0.8% on Wednesday to an intraday low of 97.58. Last week, the index eclipsed 100 to reach a 12-month high, before plunging more than 2% on Dec. 3 when the European Central Bank spooked markets by approving limited easing measures at a Governing Council meeting in Frankfurt. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Silver for March delivery gained 0.059 or 0.48% to 14.175 an ounce. Copper for March delivery added 0.013 or 0.66% to 2.066 a pound.
