Title: Gold holds near 5-1/2-year low after mixed U.S. housing data
Date: 20151118
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices languished near five-and-a-half-year lows on Wednesday, after data showed the number of housing starts issued in the U.S. tumbled in October, while building permits rose more than forecast, painting a mixed picture of the U.S. housing sector. Gold for December delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange fell to $1,062.00 a troy ounce, a level not seen since February 2010, before recovering to $1,067.60 during U.S. morning hours, down $1.00, or 0.09%. The U.S. Commerce Department said that housing starts dropped 11% to 1.060 million units last month from September’s total of 1.191 million units. Analysts had expected a decline of 3.9% to 1.160 million. Meanwhile, the number of building permits issued rose 4.1% to 1.150 million units from September’s total of 1.105 million, broadly in line with market expectations. Investors now looked ahead to minutes from the Federal Reserve\'s latest policy meeting due at 2:00PM ET Wednesday for further clues on the likelihood of a December rate hike. On Tuesday, gold tumbled $15.00, or 1.38%, after U.S. inflation data backed the case for a December rate hike. The Fed left interest rates unchanged following its meeting last month, as widely expected, but surprised the market with a hawkish statement, which included a direct reference to its next policy meeting. Recent comments by Fed officials, including Janet Yellen, have bolstered expectations the U.S. central bank will raise interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade when it meets next month. Gold futures are nearly 10% below the highs hit in mid-October as investors recalibrated their expectations of U.S. monetary policy in response to hawkish signals from the Fed. Expectations of higher borrowing rates going forward is considered bearish for gold, as the precious metal struggles to compete with yield-bearing assets when rates are on the rise. The U.S. dollar held near seven-month highs against a basket of six other major currencies on growing expectations the Fed will raise rates for the first time in nearly a decade at its December meeting. Dollar-priced commodities become more expensive to investors holding other currencies when the greenback gains. Elsewhere in metals trading, copper prices held near the lowest level since May 2009 on Wednesday, as ongoing concerns over slackening demand for the industrial metal weighed. Copper prices have declined for 13 straight days as the possibility of higher interest rates in the U.S. and slower global economic growth, particularly in China, weighed. Prices of the red metal are down almost 30% since May as fears of a China-led global economic slowdown spooked traders and rattled sentiment. The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for nearly 45% of world consumption. 
