Title: Two Ex-PCA officials sentenced in Salmonella-tainted peanut outbreak
Date: 20151001
Content:
Investing.com -- Two former officials of the Peanut Corporation of America were sentenced on Thursday for their roles in a Salmonella-tainted peanut product outbreak that led to a massive outbreak deemed responsible for hundreds of cases of poisoning throughout the continental U.S. Samuel Lightsey, 50, Blakely, Georgia, was sentenced in U.S. District Court of the Middle District of Georgia to three years in prison, followed by another three years of supervised release. Daniel Kilgore, 46 of Blakely, was sentenced to 72 months in prison, also to be followed by three years of supervised release. Both Lightsey and Kilgore worked as former operations managers at the Blakely plant. Lightsey and Kilgore each pleaded guilty to a number of charges including: conspiracy, mail and wire fraud and the sale of misbranded and adulterated food. The defendants also testified in the 2014 trial of Stewart Parnell, the former owner and president of the company. Last month, Parnell was sentenced to 336 months in prison, followed by three years of supervised release. Federal prosecutors presented evidence at the trial that the company's actions triggered a salmonella outbreak in 2009 that led to 700 cases of food poisoning in 46 states. Based on projection compiled by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the outbreak resulted in more than 20,000 cases and nine total deaths. “Today’s sentences are a just result,” said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer, head of the Justice Department’s Civil Division in a statement. “They reflect the roles that the defendants played in these terrible acts, their acceptance of responsibility for those roles, and their willingness to assist the government, albeit after the fact, in ensuring that all of those who engaged in criminal activity were held accountable." The defendants, according to court filings, took part in several schemes that misled customers about the presence of salmonella in their products. Both Lightey and Kilgore allegedly fabricated Certificates of Analysis (COAs) that were included in a variety of peanut shipments. The COAs included summaries of lab results in which the company claimed it conducted tests on whether the peanuts contained the presence of dangerous pathogens inside the food. The defendants stated that the food did not contain the pathogens when in fact the company failed to conduct the tests. “Today’s sentencing in federal court will afford these defendants, former corporate officers at Peanut Corporation of America, plenty of time to reflect on their roles in the fatal 2009 salmonella outbreak as a result of their criminal conduct,” said Special Agent in Charge J. Britt Johnson of the FBI Atlanta Field Office in a statement. “It is the FBI’s hope that this will provide some solace to the families of those that died and the many more that suffered as a result of this outbreak.”
