Title: Crude oil futures - weekly outlook: September 21 - 25
Date: 20150920
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil futures fell sharply on Friday, as the Federal Reserve’s downbeat assessment about the state of the global economy hurt investor sentiment. The Fed left short-term interest rates unchanged on Thursday, amid concerns over soft inflation and the effects of recent market volatility on the U.S. economy. "Recent global economic and financial developments may restrain economic activity somewhat and are likely to put further downward pressure on inflation in the near term," the FOMC said in a statement. The central bank added that it wanted to see "some further improvement in the labor market," and be "reasonably confident" that inflation will increase before hiking rates. The Fed’s concerns over the uncertain outlook for global growth rattled financial markets and pressured risk-sensitive assets lower on Friday. On the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for November delivery tumbled $1.61, or 3.28%, to close the week at $47.47 a barrel. For the week, London-traded Brent futures declined 61 cents, or 1.39%, the third straight weekly loss, amid ongoing concerns over sluggish global growth. Elsewhere, on the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in November plunged $2.18, or 4.62%, to end Friday's session at $45.02 a barrel. Industry research group  Baker Hughes  (NYSE:BHI) said late Friday that the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. decreased by eight last week to 644, the third straight weekly decline. New York-traded oil futures dipped 10 cents, or 0.11%, on the week, as worries over the health of the global economy added to the concerns that a global supply glut may stick around for longer than anticipated. Crude oil prices have been under heavy selling pressure in recent months, as ongoing concerns over a glut in world markets drove down prices. Global oil production is outpacing demand following a boom in U.S. shale oil production and after a decision by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries last year not to cut production. Meanwhile, the spread between the Brent and the WTI crude contracts stood at $2.45 a barrel by close of trade on Friday. In the week ahead, investors will be turning their attention to Wednesday’s index of manufacturing activity from China and surveys on private sector activity from the euro zone for a fresh indication on the strength of the global economy. Market players will also be focusing on U.S. durable goods data as well as reports on U.S. home sales for further indications on the strength of the economy and the likelihood of a near-term interest rate hike. Investing.com has compiled a list of these and other significant events likely to affect the markets. Monday, September 21 The U.S. is to release a report on existing home sales. Tuesday, September 22 The American Petroleum Institute, an industry group, is to publish its weekly report on oil supplies. Wednesday, September 23 China is to reveal the preliminary reading of its Caixin manufacturing index. The euro zone is to publish preliminary data on manufacturing and service sector activity. The U.S. is to release a weekly government report on crude oil inventories. Thursday, September 24 The U.S. is to release data on durable goods orders, initial jobless claims and new home sales. Later in the day, Fed Chair Janet Yellen is to speak at an event at the University of Massachusetts. Friday, September 25 The U.S. is to round up the week with revised data on second quarter economic growth and a revised report on consumer sentiment. 
