Title: Gold / Silver / Copper futures - weekly outlook: December 14 - 18
Date: 20151213
Content:
Investing.com - Gold fell to a one-week low on Friday, before turning higher in choppy trade as a broadly weaker U.S. dollar lifted prices, but gains were limited as market players prepared for the first U.S. rate hike since 2006 next week. The dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, fell 0.42% on Friday to end at 97.55. Dollar-priced commodities become cheaper to investors holding other currencies when the greenback declines. Gold for February delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange inched up $3.70, or 0.35%, on Friday to close the week at $1,075.70 a troy ounce. It earlier fell to $1,061.70, the lowest since December 4. For the week, prices of the precious metal dipped $8.40, or 0.77%, the seventh weekly decline over the past eight weeks. While investors widely expect the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates at its December 15-16 meeting, they anticipate the pace of increases to be gradual amid concerns over tepid growth overseas and divergent monetary policies between the U.S. and other nations. Gold futures are on track to post an annual decline of 9% in 2015, the third yearly loss in a row, as speculation over the timing of a Fed rate hike dominated market sentiment for most of the year. Expectations of higher borrowing rates going forward is considered bearish for gold, as the precious metal struggles to compete with yield-bearing assets when rates are on the rise. Also on the Comex, silver futures for March delivery sank 22.6 cents, or 1.6%, on Friday to settle at $13.88 a troy ounce by close of trade. Prices slumped to a daily low of $13.75, a level not seen since August 2009. On the week, silver futures tumbled 70.6 cents, or 4.43%, also the seventh weekly drop over the past eight weeks. Silver is on track to post a 9% annual decline in 2015. Elsewhere in metals trading, copper for March delivery jumped 4.4 cents, or 2.12%, on Friday to settle the week at $2.116 a pound. It earlier rose to $2.138, the most since November 26. Meanwhile, three-month copper on the London Metal Exchange advanced 1.88% to $4678.50 a metric ton. For the week, Comex copper prices gained 3.7 cents, or 1.74%, amid optimism surrounding recent supply-cut announcements by major mining companies, such as  Glencore  (L:GLEN), Freeport-McMoran (N:FCX) and  Anglo American  (L:AAL). The world’s biggest mining companies are reeling from the deepening rout in commodities prices this year. Copper is on track to post an annual decline of 27% in 2015 as fears of a China-led global economic slowdown spooked traders and rattled sentiment. Sluggish trade and inflation figures released last week added to concerns over the health of the world's second-biggest economy. The rate of economic growth in China slowed to 6.9% in the third quarter, according to official data, dropping below the 7% level for the first time since the global financial crisis. The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for nearly 45% of world consumption. In the week ahead, investors will be focusing their attention on Wednesday’s outcome of the final Fed meeting of 2015. U.S. economic reports on inflation, manufacturing activity and industrial production will also be closely watched. Wednesday’s survey data on euro zone private sector growth will be scrutinized by market watchers for signs of a recovery in the region. Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of these and other significant events likely to affect the markets. Monday, December 14 European Central Bank President Mario Draghi is to speak at an event in Italy. Tuesday, December 15 The U.K. is to report on consumer price inflation. In the euro zone, the ZEW Institute is to report on German economic sentiment. The U.S. is to release reports on inflation and manufacturing activity in the New York region. Wednesday, December 16 The euro zone is to release survey data on manufacturing and service sector activity. Germany and France are also to release individual reports. The U.K. is to report on consumer price inflation. The U.S. is to release data on building permits, housing starts, industrial production and crude oil inventories. Later Wednesday, the Federal Reserve is to announce its latest interest rate decision and hold a post-policy meeting press conference. Thursday, December 17 In the euro zone, the Ifo Institute is to report on German business climate. The U.K. is to release data on retail sales. The U.S. is to produce reports on manufacturing activity in Philadelphia and initial jobless claims. Friday, December 18 The Bank of Japan is to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish its rate statement, which outlines economic conditions and the factors affecting the monetary policy decision. 
