Title: Gold prices down slightly in early Asia with market eyeing U.S. data
Date: 20150413
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices were slightly weaker on Tuesday in early Asia with the focus on upcoming data in the U.S. to gain insight into the Federal Reserve's likely timing for a widely expected interest rate hike this year.On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold futures for June delivery ticked down 0.04% to $1,198.80 a troy ounce.Elsewhere, silver for May delivery dropped 0.29% to 16.243.Copper for May delivery rose 0.04% to $2.719.On Monday, China said exports declined by 15% on a year-over-year basis, one month after rising by nearly 50%.Chinese imports for March also fell by 12.7%, after declining by 20.5% in February. China is the world's second-largest purchaser of gold. The Asian nation also is the world's largest consumer of copper. In 2014, China accounted for more than 40% of the world's total supply.Overnight, gold futures slipped on Monday paring some of its gains from late last week, as a steadily appreciating dollar continued to strengthen.Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers in periods of a stronger dollar.Following a rash of disappointing data last week, investors unloaded the precious metal ahead of the release of a host of key economic indicators over the next several days. Analysts expect a slight uptick of 1.1% in Tuesday's U.S. Retail Sales Report, as well as a modest increase in the Producer Price Index, which will also be released on Tuesday.Economists, though, have forecasted a 0.3% decline in industrial production from last month and will closely monitor housing starts for March, after the figure dropped sharply by 17% a month earlier. Policymakers also await the release of the Consumer Price Index for the month of March on Friday for a gauge on inflation.Last month, Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen indicated that she would like to see inflation move toward its target goal of 2% before the Fed decides on the timing of an interest-rate hike. The index rebounded 0.2% in February, after declining sharply by 0.7% a month earlier.Continued bearish economic data could fuel expectations for a delay in raising rates. Gold, which is not attached to interest rates or dividends, struggles to compete with high yield bearing assets. 
