Title: U.S. crude falls below $40 amid supply gains, with OPEC meeting in focus
Date: 20151202
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude futures fell by more than 4% on Wednesday ahead of potentially the most contentious OPEC meeting in years, as U.S. crude stockpiles continued their steady move upward last week providing few signals of a rebalancing of the supply-demand equilibrium in domestic markets. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for January delivery traded in a broad range between $39.86 and $41.95 a barrel before settling at $39.95, down 1.90 or 4.55% on the session. U.S. crude futures slipped below $40 a barrel late in the session, falling to its lowest level in more than a week. After closing lower for the fourth time in five session, WTI crude is near its six-year low from late in the summer. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for January delivery wavered between $42.59 and $44.62 a barrel before closing at $42.46, down 1.98 or 4.46% on the day. North Sea brent futures have responded to a six-day winning streak from last week with five consecutive losing sessions. Over the last month of trading, brent futures have fallen precipitously by more than 14%. Meanwhile, the spread between the international and U.S. domestic benchmarks of crude stood at $2.51, below Tuesday's level of $2.59 at the close of trading. On Wednesday morning, the U.S. Energy Information Administration said in its Weekly Petroleum Status Report that U.S. commercial crude inventories rose by 1.2 million barrels last week for the week ending on Nov. 27. It marked the 10th consecutive week of supply increases as crude stockpiles nationwide reached 489.4 million barrels, remaining at levels not seen at this time of year in at least 80 years. Analysts expected a draw of 471,000 last week while the American Petroleum Institute reported a build of 1.6 million barrel on Tuesday after the close of trading. At the Cushing Oil Hub in Oklahoma, crude inventories last week grew by 428,000, below forecasts of an increase of 725,000. Cushing is the main delivery point for NYMEX crude. Total motor gas inventories last week inched up by 0.1 million barrels, while distillate fuel inventories jumped by 3.1 million barrels. U.S. crude output, meanwhile, rose by 37,000 last week to 9.202 million barrels per day, moving above the 9.2 million barrel threshold for the first time in more than a month. Crude has fallen in value by more than 40% over the last year since a shocking decision by OPEC last fall to favor production increases over price growth spooked global energy markets. The strategy aimed at squeezing out U.S. shale producers triggered a prolonged battle for market share, resulting in a glut of global oversupply. When OPEC meets on Friday in Vienna, the world's largest oil cartel is largely expected to leave its production ceiling unchanged above 30 million barrels per day. Saudi Arabia, though, is reportedly facing mounting pressure to slash output from a host of smaller OPEC members, which have struggled economically since the start of the downturn. Energy traders also closely observed monetary policy developments worldwide ahead of a pivotal European Central Bank meeting on Thursday. EUR/USD fell to fresh eight-month lows in U.S. afternoon trading after Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen sent fresh indications that the U.S. central bank could raise short-term interest rates later this month. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, surged to an intraday high of 100.41, its highest level in more than a year. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. 
