Title: Crude oil futures - weekly outlook: April 27 - May 1
Date: 20150426
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil futures were mixed on Friday, with London-traded Brent prices hitting the highest level of the year, while New York oil futures ended modestly lower as investors cashed out of the market to lock in gains from a recent rally. On the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for June delivery hit an intraday peak of $65.80 a barrel, the most since December 10, before ending at $65.28 by close of trade on Friday, up 43 cents, or 0.66%. For the week, London-traded Brent futures rose $1.43, or 2.88%, the third straight weekly advance. Saudi Arabia resumed its air strike campaign against Iran-backed Houthi rebels in Yemen on Friday, renewing concerns over the security of Middle East oil shipments. Brent futures are up more than 16% so far in April as some investors bet that a bottom had been reached after a nine-month long rout. But prices are still down approximately 43% since June, when futures climbed near $116. Elsewhere, on the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in June shed 59 cents, or 1.02%, to settle the week at $57.15 a barrel. On the week, New York-traded oil prices declined 60 cents, or 0.3%, halting four straight weeks of gains. U.S. oil futures have risen almost 16% in April due to mounting expectations that U.S. shale oil production has peaked and may start falling in the coming months amid an ongoing collapse in rigs drilling for oil. Industry research group  Baker Hughes  (NYSE:BHI) said late Friday that the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. fell by 31 last week to 703, the lowest since October 2010. It was the 20th straight week of declines. Market players have been paying close attention to the shrinking rig count in recent months for signs it will eventually reduce the glut of crude flowing into the market. Meanwhile, the spread between the Brent and the WTI crude contracts stood at $8.13 a barrel by close of trade on Friday, compared to $7.71 in the preceding week. Elsewhere, the U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, fell 0.37% on Friday to close at 97.07, the lowest level since April 6. The index ended the week down 0.62%, the second straight weekly drop, as investors pushed back expectations for higher U.S. interest rates after a recent run of disappointing economic data dampened optimism over the economic recovery. The Commerce Department reported Friday that orders for durable goods, excluding aircraft, fell 0.5% in March, after a downwardly revised 2.2% drop in February. The headline figure rose 4.0%, beating expectations for a 0.6% gain, but investors focused on underlying weakness in the report. In the week ahead, market players will focus on the conclusion of the Federal Reserve's two-day monetary policy meeting on Wednesday, which could provide indications on how soon it might raise interest rates. Investors will also be looking ahead to preliminary data on first quarter U.S. growth figures for further indications on the strength of the economy. Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of these and other significant events likely to affect the markets. The guide skips Monday as there is no relevant data on this day. Tuesday, April 28 The U.S. is to release private sector data on consumer confidence, while the American Petroleum Institute, an industry group, is to publish its weekly report on oil supplies. Wednesday, April 29 The U.S. is to publish preliminary data on first quarter economic growth in addition to a report on pending home sales. The country will also release its weekly report on oil inventories. Later in the day the Federal Reserve is to announce its monetary policy decision and publish its rate statement. Thursday, April 30 The U.S. is to publish data on initial jobless claims. Friday, May 1 Markets in China are to remain closed for a holiday. Beijing is still to release data on manufacturing and service sector activity. In Europe markets in France, Italy, Germany and Switzerland are to remain shut for holidays. The U.S. is to round up the week with a report for the Institute of Supply Management on Manufacturing activity and revised data on consumer sentiment. 
