Title: NYMEX crude up in early Asia as investors eye demand signals
Date: 20150507
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices gained in early Asia on Friday, recovering from an overnight dip as investors keep an increasingly close eye on monetary policies in the U.S. and China. for demand cues.On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for June delivery rose 0.12% to $59.01 a barrel.Also today, China's April trade data are due but there's no fixed time for this release. The data may provide yet more evidence of weak global and domestic conditions.Expectations are for a 2.4% gain in exports in April year-on-year, and a 12% drop in imports for a trade surplus of $39.45 billion. The surprising 15% slide in exports and 12.7% drop in imports in March pointed to an economic slowdown, which has apparently dragged into the second quarter of the year.Overnight, U.S. crude futures fell sharply on Thursday amid a stronger dollar, one day after surging to a five-month high.WTI crude soared above $62 on Wednesday amid bullish supply data. Crude stockpiles in the U.S. last week unexpectedly declined by 3.9 million barrels, significantly below expectations of a 1.5 million build.It marked the first time this year U.S. crude inventories decreased on a week-to-week basis, easing concerns that stockpiles at the Cushing Oil Hub in Oklahoma could reach full storage capacity by the start of the summer. U.S. crude inventories are now at 487.0 million barrels, below last week's record-high of 490.9 million – the highest level in at least 80 years.Last month, the price of WTI crude futures gained more than 20% as slowing U.S. shale production allayed fears that the U.S. could reach full storage capacity by the start of the summer.On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude for June delivery also fell precipitously plummeting 2.22 or 3.28% to 65.55 on Thursday.Elsewhere, Iranian oil minister Bijan Zanganeh appeared confident that his nation could regain its market share if crippling economic sanctions are lifted this summer once a nuclear pact is reached with Western powers.Speaking at an Energy Security Summit in Berlin, Zanganeh said Iran's production could reach "three to four million barrels per day," within eight months of a deal, up from pre-2012 levels of 2.5 million bpd."Oil-producing countries should create space for Iran when we increase our exports after sanctions are lifted," Zanganeh said, according to Shana, the official news service for Oil & Gas in Iran.Last month, Reuters reported that Iran has 30 million barrels of oil stored in offshore tankers ready for export, after the Persian Gulf nation agreed on the framework of a nuclear deal with Western powers. In addition, Facts Global Energy, an energy consulting firm, has forecast that Iranian oil exports could reach a level of 1.7 million barrels per day within 12 months of a final deal up from it current level of a million bpd.An outflow of Iranian could depress oil prices in a global market already saturated by a glut of supply.Energy traders await Friday's weekly rig count from oil services firm  Baker Hughes  (NYSE:NYSE:BHI) for a further gauge on supply levels. Last week, the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. dropped by 24 to 679 as the figure moved lower for the 21st consecutive week. The national rig count is currently at its lowest level since November, 2010. 
