Title: Crude down despite late rally, as deadline for Iran nuclear deal nears
Date: 20150330
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude oil prices slid on Monday as a deadline for a deal regarding Iran's nuclear program neared, exacerbating concerns that a relaxation of sanctions on Iranian oil exports could add significantly to the glut in global oil supply. A late rally in the final minutes of trading on Monday pared previous losses, after a State Department spokesperson said there's a "50-50 chance," an agreement with Iran will be reached by Tuesday. While crude futures gained more than a dollar a barrel just before the close, the last-minute rebound failed to offset an earlier sell-off. In Lausanne, Switzerland, a bevy of foreign ministers from major world powers met with Iran, reportedly pressing Iranian leaders to budge on the final critical details of a long-awaited agreement. The sides have set a deadline for Tuesday at midnight to reach an agreement on a preliminary outline for a deal aimed at limiting Iran's capabilities enough to keep a nuclear bomb out of reach. Hampered by heavy economic sanctions over the last three years, Iran has reportedly exported just over a million barrels of crude oil a day since 2012. An easing of sanctions could depress crude prices due to heightening supply. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for May delivery fell 0.20 or 0.41% to $48.67 a barrel. Last Friday, WTI crude experienced one of its worst trading days of the year, plummeting more than 5% to under $49 a barrel. WTI crude on Monday rose to a daily-high of $49.14 in morning trading, before falling below $47.70 in afternoon hours. Iran holds the world's fourth-highest level of crude oil reserves, according to the Energy Information Administration (EIA), a supply level (of 157 billion barrels) that amounts to approximately 10% of total global crude storage. The rigid sanctions, in turn, have boosted Iranian oil supply. Iran reportedly has hoarded 30 million barrels of oil on its fleet of offshore supertankers, Reuters reported last week. Opec, meanwhile, said in a mid-March report that heavy crude oil prices in Iran increased to $53.26 for the month of February, a spike of more than $10 a barrel from the prior month. Iranian Oil Minister Bijan Namdar Zanganeh has set a production target of 5.7 million barrels per day of crude oil by 2018, the Tehran Times reported according to official Iranian government statements. The Iranian prices for crude are slightly below current futures for the international benchmark. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent for May delivery fell 0.37% or 0.21 to $56.20 a barrel. Global oil supply is approaching record levels in large part due to the Shale boom throughout the United States. In the U.S. oil is being pumped at its fastest rate in more than 30 years. As a result, U.S. storage capacity has hovered around 60% in recent weeks -- more than doubling from its level of 12 months ago. If the U.S. reaches storage capacity at some point this summer, there are mounting fears that crude oil could plunge below $30 a barrel. Oil futures are currently down more than 50% from the triple-digit levels reached last July. Strong housing numbers and encouraging personal income data led to modest gains in the dollar on Monday. The U.S. Department of Commerce reported that personal income last month rose 0.4%, above expectations for a 0.3% increase. In addition, a report from the National Association of Realtors found that contracts to purchase previously owned homes, soared 3.1% in February, significantly exceeding expectations of a 0.4% rise. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, increased 0.68% to 98.28. Crude oil futures fell sharply on Friday as supply concerns in Yemen eased. While the closure of the strategically located Bab el-Mandeb strait could limit oil exports in the Red Sea from reaching the Gulf of Aden, analysts from Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) said tankers could reach the area by taking an alternative route around Africa.
