Title: Crude futures mixed amid stronger dollar, Tropical Storm Bill concerns
Date: 20150616
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude futures were mixed amid a stronger dollar and concerns related to Tropical Storm Bill, as investors awaited the release of the American Petroleum Institute's weekly inventory report after the market's close on Tuesday. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for August delivery gained 0.46 or 0.77% to $60.46 a barrel. After closing at $60.00 a barrel on Monday, Texas Long Sweet futures traded in a tight range between 59.88 and 60.82 during Tuesday's session. WTI crude futures have now closed at $60 or higher in each of the last six sessions. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for August delivery fell 0.24 or 0.37% to $63.71 a barrel. Brent futures wavered between 63.44 and 64.40 on a choppy day of trading. Meanwhile, the spread between the international and U.S. domestic benchmarks of crude stood at $3.25, below Monday's level of 3.95. When the API releases its weekly report on U.S. crude stockpiles after the bell on Tuesday, inventory levels are expected to move lower after declining by more than 6.8 million barrels last week for the week ending on June 5. Last week, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) said crude inventories fell for the sixth consecutive week to 470.6 million, its highest level at this time of the year in at least 80 years. The EIA's report on Wednesday could show that crude stockpiles for the week ending on June 12 fell by 1.8 million barrels. U.S. stockpiles typically fall at this time of year as refinery capacity increases ahead of the busy summer driving season. Last week, U.S. refineries surged to 94.6% of total capacity, its highest level in weeks. The significant inventory draws, though, are seen as bullish for crude, which experienced historic levels of oversupply throughout the winter. In addition, on Friday oil services firm  Baker Hughes  (NYSE:BHI) said U.S. oil rigs fell by seven last week to 635, marking the 27th consecutive week of weekly declines. The count is down markedly from its level last fall when it peaked above 1,600, as drillers continue a push to take inefficient rigs offline. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, gained 0.22% to 95.27, amid mixed U.S. housing data. In a monthly report, the U.S. Department of Commerce said the number of building permits for future home construction surged nearly 12% to an eight-year high at 1.28 million units. Although monthly housing starts dipped 11.1% to 1.04 million units, the Commerce Department upwardly revised an already robust figure from April to 1.17 million units. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Investors await potential market-moving comments from Janet Yellen on Wednesday, following the completion of the Federal Open Market Committee's two-day June meeting. Although the Fed has not ruled out a June interest rate hike, it is more likely that the FOMC will wait until its September meeting before it raises its benchmark Fed Funds Rate for the first time in nearly a decade.
