Title: Natural gas futures - weekly outlook: September 7 - 11
Date: 20150906
Content:
Investing.com - Natural gas futures fell sharply on Friday, as forecasts for cooler weather across key consumption regions of the U.S. in the week ahead dampened demand expectations for the fuel. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, natural gas for delivery in October dropped 7.0 cents, or 2.57%, to end at $2.655 per million British thermal units. For the week, the October natural gas contract lost 2.6 cents, or 2.21%, as market players weighed shifting weather forecasts to assess the outlook for U.S. demand and supply levels. Updated weather forecasting models showed that cooler weather was expected across most parts of the Great Lakes, Northeast and Midwest-regions in the coming days, dampening demand for the fuel. Summer heat has waned and cooler temperatures beckon with the approach of autumn. Natural gas accounts for about a quarter of U.S. electricity generation. On Thursday, futures rallied 7.7 cents, or 2.91%, after data showed that U.S. natural gas supplies rose less than expected last week. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, natural gas storage rose by 94 billion cubic feet. The data included a reclassification from working gas to base gas of 8 billion cubic feet, which brought the number to 86 billion cubic feet. Analysts had expected an increase of 88 billion cubic feet last week. Supplies rose by 79 billion cubic feet in the same week last year, while the five-year average change is an increase of 60 billion cubic feet. Total U.S. natural gas storage stood at 3.193 trillion cubic feet, 18.3% higher than during the same week a year earlier and 4.0% above the five-year average for this time of year. Last spring, supplies were 55% below the five-year average, indicating producers have made up for all of last winter’s unusually strong demand. The EIA's next storage report slated for release on Thursday, September 10 is expected to show a build of approximately 80 billion cubic feet for the week ending September 4. That compares with builds of 90 billion cubic feet in the same week last year, while the five-year average change for the week is an increase of 63 billion cubic feet. Elsewhere on the Nymex, crude oil for October delivery settled at $46.05 a barrel by close of trade on Friday, up $1.05, or 1.84%, on the week, while heating oil for October delivery tacked on 1.24% on the week to settle at $1.596 per gallon. 
