Title: NYMEX crude gains in early Asia as shaky cease fire in Ukraine holds
Date: 20150215
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices gained in early Asia on Monday as investors eyed a shaky cease fire in UkraineOn the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in March gained 0.56% at $53.97 a barrel.Last week, crude oil futures rallied sharply on Friday, with prices continuing to recover from recent lows amid speculation productions cuts by drillers in the U.S and global oil companies will alleviate a glut in supplies.Industry research group Baker Hughes said Friday that the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. fell by another 84 in the past week to 1,056, the lowest since August 2011.The number of oil rigs has declined in 15 of the last 18 weeks since hitting an all-time high of 1,609 in mid-October.A day earlier, Nymex oil soared $2.37, or 4.85%, to end at $51.21 a barrel, after Russian President Vladimir Putin confirmed that a cease fire deal with Ukraine starting February 15 had been reached, following months of violence.Elsewhere, on the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent for April delivery soared $2.24, or 3.78%, on Friday to settle at $61.52 a barrel by close of trade. Prices hit $61.77 earlier in the session, the most since December 23.Oil prices have fallen sharply in recent months as the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries resisted calls to cut output, while the U.S. pumped at the fastest pace in more than three decades, creating a glut in global supplies.Oil received additional support from a broadly weaker U.S. dollar and as improving economic data from Europe boosted hopes for an increase in demand for crude.Oil prices typically strengthen when the U.S. currency weakens as the dollar-priced commodity becomes cheaper for holders of other currencies.The drop in the dollar came after data on Friday showed that U.S. consumer sentiment unexpectedly deteriorated in February.The preliminary reading of the University of Michigan’s consumer sentiment index fell to 93.6, down from January’s final reading of 98.1. Economists had forecast an unchanged figure.The report came a day after data showing that U.S. retail sales unexpectedly fell 0.8% last month after dropping 0.9% in December, indicating that consumer spending remained sluggish at the start of the year.The weak data prompted investors to trim back long positions in the greenback ahead of a three-day holiday weekend. U.S. markets will be closed on Monday in observance of Presidents' Day.In the coming week, investors will be focusing on Wednesday’s minutes of the latest Federal Reserve meeting for further indications on when the central bank may start to hike interest rates.Fresh Greek debt talks on Monday will also be in focus after discussions on a new debt deal last week ended without an agreement.Greece’s current €240 billion bailout is due to expire on February 28 and the new Greek government does not want it extended, fuelling fears over a conflict with its creditors which could trigger the country’s exit from the euro zone.On Monday, officials from Greece and the European Union were due to hold fresh talks in Brussels to discuss a solution to Greece's bailout program.Markets in the U.S. are to remain closed for the Presidents Day holiday. 
