Title: Gold falls back towards 6-year low after barrage of upbeat U.S. data
Date: 20151125
Content:
Investing.com - Gold fell back towards the lowest levels in almost six years on Wednesday, after a barrage of mostly upbeat U.S. economic data reinforced the case for a Fed rate hike next month. Gold for December delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange shed $4.20, or 0.39%, to trade at $1,069.60 a troy ounce during U.S. morning hours, not far from last week's six-year low of $1,062.00. The U.S. Department of Labor said the number of individuals filing for initial jobless benefits declined by 12,000 last week to 260,000 from the previous week’s revised total of 272,000. Analysts expected jobless claims to fall by 2,000 last week. First-time jobless claims have held below the 300,000-level for 37 consecutive weeks, which is usually associated with a firming labor market. At the same time, the U.S. Commerce Department said durable goods orders, which include transportation items, jumped 3.0% in October, easily surpassing forecasts for 1.5%. Core durable goods orders, excluding volatile transportation items, rose 0.5%, beating expectations for an increase of 0.3%. A separate report showed that U.S. personal spending inched up by 0.1% last month, missing expectations for 0.3%, while the core PCE price index was flat last month, below forecasts for a 0.1% gain. The mostly upbeat data added to already growing expectations the Federal Reserve will raise rates for the first time in nearly a decade at its December 15-16 meeting. Most Fed officials believe there is a strong case to begin raising interest rates next month, as long as U.S. economic data does not disappoint in the coming weeks. Expectations of higher borrowing rates going forward is considered bearish for gold, as the precious metal struggles to compete with yield-bearing assets when rates are on the rise. The U.S. dollar rallied to an eight-month high against a basket of six other major currencies following the data, amid growing expectations for tighter monetary policy in the U.S. in the coming months. Dollar-priced commodities become more expensive to investors holding other currencies when the greenback gains. A day earlier, prices tacked on $7.00, or 0.66%, as mounting geopolitical concerns between Russia and NATO member Turkey boosted safe haven demand for the precious metal. Meanwhile, silver futures for December delivery dipped 9.9 cents, or 0.7%, to trade at $14.06 a troy ounce. Prices hit $13.85 earlier this week, the weakest since August 2009. Elsewhere in metals trading, copper declined on Wednesday, as traders booked profits from the previous session's sharp rally, which came on the back of a weaker dollar. Despite Tuesday's rally, prices of the red metal remain not far above six-year lows hit earlier this week as expectations of higher interest rates in the U.S. and slower global economic growth, especially in China, weighed. Copper is down more than 10% so far this month as fears of a China-led global economic slowdown and a stronger greenback slammed commodities. U.S. markets will be closed Thursday for the Thanksgiving holiday and Friday will be a half day. 
