Title: Gold surges nearly $25, as investors digest dovish Fed remarks
Date: 20150618
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold futures surged more than $25 an ounce on Thursday attaining its strongest one-day move in more than a month, as traders digested relatively dovish comments from the Federal Reserve on the timing of an interest rate hike and the Greek Debt crisis remained in focus. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for August delivery jumped to an intra-day high of 1,205.50 a troy ounce, its highest level in June, before settling at 1,200.50, up 23.70 or 2.01%. Metal investors piled into gold on Thursday, one day after the Federal Open Market Committee declined to offer any explicit wording on when it might lift its benchmark Federal Funds Rate for the first time since June, 2006. During its two-day June meeting that concluded on Wednesday, the FOMC upgraded its economic outlook in its Federal Funds Rate Target, otherwise known as its "dot plot." While tempering its expectations for GDP growth for the remainder of the year, 10 members of the FOMC built in two quarter-point interest rate hikes for the remainder of 2015, down from 14 of 17 governors in March. Although the assessment signaled the clearest indication in months that the Fed will raise rates this year, it also increased the possibility that the U.S. Central Bank could wait until December, not September for lift-off. Gold, which is not attached to dividends or interest rates, struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in periods of rising rates. Fed chair Janet Yellen reiterated that she would like to see continued improvements in wage and GDP growth, as well as indications of long-term inflation headed toward its targeted goal of 2% before the FOMC raises rates. On Thursday, the U.S. Department of Labor’s Bureau of Labor Statistics said the Consumer Price Index in May rose 0.4% in line with analysts' expectation of a consensus range between 0.3 and 0.6%. The headline reading, however, remained unchanged on a year-over-year basis. Core inflation, which strips out food and energy prices, inched up 0.1% from last month and 1.7% year-over-year. In April, the core reading was up 1.8% from its level 12 months earlier. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, continued its decent, falling to an intra-day low of 93.71, its lowest level in a month. On Wednesday, the index dipped more than 0.8% as investors priced in a delayed rate hike. In Luxembourg, there was little optimism of an imminent deal in ongoing Greek Debt negotiations ahead of Thursday's meeting of the euro zone finance ministers. Speaking to reporters before leaders assembled for the crisis meeting, International Monetary Fund head Christine Lagarde warned that Greece will not be given a grace period if it fails to make a loan repayment of €1.5 billion on June 30. "It will be in default, it will be in arrears vis-a-vis the IMF on July 1, but I hope it is not the case, I really do," Lagarde said. "There is no grace period or two-month delay, as I have seen here and there." Greece finance minister Yanis Varoufakis, meanwhile, reminded his creditors of comments made by European Central Bank president Mario Draghi on the importance of a cohesive, unified European Union, which could be threatened if the nation leaves the euro zone. "Some time ago Mario Draghi said quite correctly that for the euro to succeed anywhere it has to succeed everywhere," Varoufakis told reporters before the meeting. "We think he is absolutely spot on and today we are going to be presenting the Greek government's ideas along those line. The purpose is to replace costly discord with effusive consensus." Gold is viewed as a safe haven for investors in periods of severe economic instability. Silver for July delivery gained 0.216 or 1.35% to 16.163 an ounce. Copper for July delivery rose 0.002 or 0.07% to 2.606 a pound.
