Title: Oil futures climb on Chinese market rebound
Date: 20150710
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil futures climbed on Friday, boosted by the rebound in Chinese stock markets following a sharp downward trend. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for August delivery hit $53.28 during European late morning hours, up 47 cents, or 0.90%. A day earlier, Nymex oil prices gained $1.13, or 2.19%, to end at $52.78. The Shanghai Composite rallied over 4% on Friday after authorities increased scrutiny of short selling and eased rules for insurers to invest in blue-chips stocks in wake of China’s recent stock plunge. Equity markets in China have lost more than 30% over the past three weeks, roiling global financial markets. Market players are concerned that the plunge in the stock market could spread to other parts of the Chinese economy, triggering fears that the Asian nation's demand for the industrial metal will decline. China is the world's second largest oil consumer after the U.S. and has been the engine of strengthening demand. Meanwhile, investors continued to monitor developments in Greece. The Greek government offered to make painful spending cuts and hike taxes late Thursday, in a last-ditch request to win one more bailout from Europe before the country descends into bankruptcy. Athens was seeking at least €50 billion over the next three years. In exchange, the government presented a number of austerity measures that were said to total between €12 billion and €13 billion - significantly more than Greece’s previous commitments. The move brought Greece one step closer to a deal with its European creditors, who plan to make a final decision Sunday about whether to grant the country additional emergency loans. In the meantime, the Greek government extended bank closures and the €60 daily limit on cash machine withdrawals until Monday. Elsewhere, on the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for August delivery jumped by 65 cents, or 1.09%, to trade at $59.22 a barrel. On Thursday, London-traded Brent futures advanced by $1.56, or 2.73%, to settle at $58.61. The spread between the Brent and the WTI crude contracts stood at $5.94 a barrel. 
