Title: OFAC sanctions African militia leaders for aiding illegal diamond trade
Date: 20150821
Content:
Investing.com -- The U.S. Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control sanctioned a trio of militia leaders on Friday for allegedly inciting violence in the Central African Republic and facilitating illegal diamond trading that has helped fund a deadly conflict responsible for forcing thousands to flee their homes since the start of the year. Two of the individuals named in Friday’s action, Alfred Yekatom and Habib Soussou, are allegedly leaders of Anti-Balaka, a group suspected of conducting an ethnic cleansing campaign against Muslims in the region, according to a statement from the Treasury Department. A third individual, Oumar Younous, is reportedly a leader of the Seleka Armed Group and a confidante of former CAR president Michel Djotodia. The action accuses BADICA, one of the nation’s largest diamond companies, of allegedly making illegal payments to Seleka leaders in an effort to transport diamonds out of the country. For a period of roughly a year through March, 2015, BADICA officials allegedly purchased approximately 1,100 carats of diamonds from mines in Seleka controlled regions. The passage of the Kimberley Process in May, 2013, prohibited the transport of diamonds outside of the country. The actions also sanctioned BADICA and KARDIAM, another prominent diamond company in the region. As a result of the sanctions, the Treasury Department froze all of the assets of the individuals in U.S. territories and generally prohibited anyone from the U.S. from engaging in transactions with them. “Today’s designations target those responsible for waging a campaign of violence and atrocities against the innocent civilians in the Central African Republic,” John E. Smith, Acting Director of OFAC said in a statement. “OFAC is committed to working with our allies and the United Nations to prevent further destabilization in the Central African Republic and bring peace and security to its people.” The designations come one day after the United Nations placed BADICA on its official sanctions list for providing support to both sides of the nation’s ethnic conflict through the illegal sale of diamonds and other commodities.
