Title: Gold prices up in Asia as investors cautious ahead of Fed policy views
Date: 20150317
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices edged higher in Asia on Wednesday as investors tread carefully ahead of a Federal Reserve review of monetary policy that may signal a rate rise ahead.On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold prices for April delivery edged up 0.07% to $1,149.00 a troy ounce.Prices for silver futures fell 0.26% to $15.537 a troy ounce. Copper futures, meanwhile, also dropped 0.033 or 1.23% to 2.635 a pound.Overnight, gold plummeted to $1,141.60 early in U.S. morning trading, its lowest level since early-November, before moving up to near $1,160 in less than an hour.Prices for gold futures plunged to a four-month low, ending a three-day winning streak, as investors unloaded their holdings of the precious metal in advance of Wednesday's critical Federal Open Market Committee meeting.The Federal Reserve could remove a reference to remaining patient from its minutes, which would provide an indication that the U.S. central bank is ready to raise interest rates at some point this year.Typically, when the Fed eliminates such language it signals that an interest rate hike will occur at either of its next two meetings. Following the two-day meeting this week, the FOMC will convene in June, as well as September.Periods of higher interest rates are a troubling sign for gold, which struggles to compete with yield-bearing assets when rates move in a higher direction.Elsewhere, reports of mixed U.S. economic data contributed to the large decline.Last month, housing starts, according to the U.S. Commerce Department, fell by 17% to a seasonally adjusted pace of 897,000 units to reach the lowest level since January, 2014. Horrid weather throughout the Northeast for the month of February is thought to be responsible for the downturn.Housing permits have been above an adjusted pace of 1 million since July.The Labor Department, though, released more encouraging figures in regards to unemployment. Last month, unemployment dropped in 24 states, while rising in only eight. Unemployment levels remained virtually unchanged in the remaining states. 
