Title: Gold falls to fresh five-year low, as concerns from Paris attack fade
Date: 20151117
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold futures fell sharply on Tuesday to fresh five-year lows, as investors continued to brush off geopolitical concerns stemming from last week's terrorist attacks in Paris dampening the precious metal's value as a safe haven asset. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for December delivery traded between $1,067.20 and $1,083.90 an ounce before settling at $1,068.30, down 15.30 or 1.41% on the session. One session earlier, gold soared above $1,190 as French airstrikes escalated in Syria before retreating slightly during a volatile session. Throughout the month of November, gold has been in freefall as investors continue to prepare for the increasing likelihood that the Federal Reserve will raise short-term interest rates when it meets again next month. Over the last month of trading, gold has plunged nearly 10% falling to levels previously not seen since February, 2010. Elsewhere, the U.S. Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics said on Tuesday that its Consumer Price Index  (CPI) rose by 0.2% for the month of October amid considerable increases in Medical Care, Education and Vacation prices. Further gains, though, were restrained by modest increases in home prices, which rose by 0.2% after a 0.3% gain in September. Overall, analysts expected monthly gains in the October CPI of 0.2%. On a yearly basis, October CPI inched up by 0.2% over the last 12 months up from a flat reading in September. Following two months of steep declines, energy prices jumped by 0.3% in October, while food prices inched up by 0.1%. Core CPI, which strips out food and energy prices, rose by 0.2% on a monthly basis in line with consensus estimates. Over the last year, Core CPI  has increased by 1.9%, unchanged from the yearly gains reported a month earlier. Also in September, the Core Personal Consumption Expenditures (PCE) Index, increased by 1.3% year-over-year, unchanged from the previous month. The Core PCE Index is the Fed's preferred gauge for inflation as it weighs whether to raise interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade. Long-term inflation has remained under the Fed's targeted goal of 2% for every month over the last three years. Last week, Fed vice chairman Stanley Fischer said he expects inflation to move toward its target over the next year as temporary factors from a stronger dollar and weak energy prices continue to recede. An interest rate hike is viewed as bearish for gold which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, surged to a fresh seven-month high at 99.83, before falling slightly back in U.S. afternoon trading. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Silver for December delivery dropped 0.032 or 0.23% to 14.190 an ounce. Copper for December delivery settled at 2.102 a pound, down 0.013 or 0.61% on the session. Earlier, Copper fell to a fresh six-year low at 2.066.
