Title: Gold prices flat in early Asia with focus on next policy move by China
Date: 20151110
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices trended flat in early Asia on Wednesday ina light data day ahead regionally though a focus on China for any further monetary easing on soft consumer prices. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for December delivery was flat at $1,088.70 a troy ounce. Silver for December delivery fell 0.16% to $14.390 a troy ounce, while copper for December delivery was quoted flat at $2.219 a pound. Overnight, gold futures were relatively flat on Tuesday in spite of a stronger dollar, as persistent downbeat economic data in China and the timing of an interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve remained in focus. After crashing by at least 1.50% in two sessions last week, fluctuations in gold have been largely negligible since last Friday's robust U.S. jobs report. Over the last three trading days, gold has closed by less than 0.25% in a positive or negative direction from its previous session's close. Barring any unforeseen developments, gold may remain in a holding pattern near its current level until the Federal Open Market Committee meets next on Dec. 15-16. Last week, Fed chair Janet Yellen told a Congressional hearing that an interest rate hike will be a "live possibility" at its December FOMC meeting if the economy and labor market demonstrated continued improvement over the next several weeks. It was followed by arguably the strongest U.S. jobs report over the last year when nonfarm payrolls skyrocketed by 271,000 in October. Both the U-3 and U-6 unemployment rates, meanwhile, fell to their lowest levels in more than seven years. The Fed's benchmark Federal Funds Rate has remained at its current level between zero and 0.25% since 2009. Nearly a decade has elapsed since the FOMC has last raised short-term interest rates. Following the optimistic jobs data last week, the CME Group's (O:O:CME) Fed watch increased the probability of a December rate hike above 70%. A rate hike is viewed as bearish for gold, which is not attached to dividends or interest rates, and struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in periods of rising rates. Elsewhere, China reported that consumer prices in October increased by only 1.3% over the last 12 months, following a 1.6% yearly gain a month earlier. Producer prices, meanwhile, plunged 5.9% in October, extending declines to their 44th consecutive month. The disappointing data exacerbates concerns of slowing growth in the world's second-largest economy. China is the world's largest producer of gold and the second-largest consumer of the precious metal behind India. 
