Title: Crude jumps 2% extending rally from 3-month lows, amid short covering
Date: 20160804
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude futures rose sharply on Thursday, amid heavy short covering, as oil prices continued to rebound from a lengthy midsummer rout, one day after reports indicated that the massive supply glut in gasoline inventories could be showing signs of leveling. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for September delivery traded between $40.45 and $42.08 a barrel before closing at $41.84, up 1.01 or 2.47% on the session. Earlier this week, the front month contract for U.S. crude futures closed below $40 for the first time since mid-April, capping a lengthy five-week downturn after hitting 10-month highs at the start of the summer. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for October delivery wavered between $42.52 and $44.33 a barrel, before settling at $44.23, up 1.12 or 2.60% on the day. The international and U.S. domestic benchmarks for crude are still down more than 15% from their June highs. In Thursday's session, market players continued to digest a surprising draw in gasoline inventories last week when stockpiles nationwide fell by 3.3 million barrels for the week ending on July 29. It came amid mounting fears among analysts of a massive supply glut in recent weeks, as refineries churn out product at a rapid pace due to comparatively low oil prices. In spite of the massive decline, total petroleum inventories have still spiked by approximately 25 million barrels over the last two months, according to analysts. Investors turn their attention to Friday's weekly rig count from Baker Hughes  for clearer indications on the rate of drilling activity throughout the U.S. Last week, Baker Hughes reported that the U.S. oil rig count rose by three to 374 for the week ending on July 22, representing the fifth consecutive week of weekly gains. High cost U.S. shale producers have seen their global market share wane, as prices remain sharply below their peak of $115 a barrel from two summers ago. In November, 2014, OPEC rattled global energy markets by maintaining their production ceiling above 30 million barrels per day in an effort to regain market share. The strategy triggered a prolonged battle between leading producers in the Middle East and the U.S. for control of oil markets worldwide, creating an imbalance between global supply and demand. Analysts from the Institute of International Finance (IIF) estimated this week that OPEC could control as much as 46% of global supply by 2020, nearly matching its peak from forty years ago. At the same time, the IIF predicts that global oil demand will increase by 1.4 million bpd in 2016, before rising by another 1.3 million bpd by the end of next year. As a steady increase in demand is met by only a moderate increase in global supply, the IIF estimates that oil prices will remain in a range between $40 and $50 a barrel through the end of 2017. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, gained more than 0.20% to an intraday high 95.87. The index is still sharply below four-month highs of 97.62 from early last week. Dollar-denominated commodities such as Crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates.
