Title: Gold holds gains in Asia as Brexit politics eyed for timetable
Date: 20160627
Content:
Investing.com - Gold gained in Asia on Tuesday with investors eyeing a political process in the United Kingdom that could take months to play out before a firm plan for exiting the European Union is put forth. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for August delivery rose 0.25% to $1,328.00 a troy ounce. Silver futures for August delivery gained 0.30% to $17.820 a troy ounce, while copper futures for September delivery held flat at $2.129 a pound. Overnight, gold closed slightly higher on Monday, remaining near two-year highs, as investors continued to engage in a flight to safety amid the fallout of last week's stunning decision by voters in the U.K. to approve a departure from the European Union. It came one session after gold soared nearly $100 an ounce to $1,362.45, as markets worldwide were jolted by a surprising outcome in the historic Brexit referendum in the wee hours of Friday morning. Since opening the year near $1,075 an ounce, the precious metal has soared nearly 25% over the calendar year. With three days left in the month of June, Gold is on pace for its strongest first half of a year in more than a decade. In London, U.K. prime minister David Cameron took steps to calm voters nationwide and markets overall after the British Pound fell sharply by more than 3% to tumble to fresh 31-year lows against the U.S. Dollar. At the close of euro area markets, GBP/USD stood at 1.3204, down 3.45%. The Pound Sterling has fallen by approximately 10% since it became apparent that the Leave campaign would prevail last Friday. In an address before Parliament on Monday afternoon, Cameron emphasized that while the result of the referendum was not the outcome he preferred, it is a decision that he will respect along with the rest of his cabinet. Cameron also said that the U.K. has created a new civil service designed specifically for withdrawal discussions from the EU. While Cameron said last Friday that he plans to leave office by October, his administration announced on Monday that a new prime minister will be put in place by September 2. Cameron emphasized that the domestic economy remains on solid footing due to low, stable inflation and a comparatively low unemployment rate. In addition, he told Parliament that the financial system is "substantially more resilient" than it was six years, as capital requirements remain 10 times higher than from the Financial Crisis. The U.K. prime minister also reiterated that the Bank of England has set aside an additional £250 billion in liquidity to support the nation's banks and financial markets. "It is clear that markets are volatile, some companies are considering their investments and we know this will be far from plain sailing. However, we should take confidence from the fact that Britain is ready to confront what the future holds for us from a position of strength," Cameron said in his speech. "The markets may not have been expecting the Referendum results but the Treasury, the Bank of England and our other financial authorities have spent the last few months putting in place robust contingency plans. The bank stress tests have shown that UK institutions have enough capital and liquidity reserves to withstand a scenario more severe than the country currently faces." Notably, Cameron told Parliament that he will not immediately invoke Article 50, a provision of the Lisbon Treaty, which initiates a two-year process for a member state to leave the European bloc. Though Cameron is expected to deliver a dinner speech on Tuesday at an EU Summit in Brussels, he will not take part in discussions with leaders from the bloc's 27 other nations a day later.  
