Title: Gold / Silver / Copper futures - weekly outlook: June 20 - 24
Date: 20160619
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices edged lower on Friday, but held near the prior session’s 22-month peak as trading remained volatile before Britain's June 23 referendum on its EU membership and amid fading expectations of a Federal Reserve rate hike in the next couple of months. Gold for August delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange dipped $3.60, or 0.28%, to settle at $1,294.80 a troy ounce by close of trade Friday. Market sentiment recovered Friday as concerns over a possible Brexit temporarily subsided as traders tried to assess whether the killing of a pro-EU British lawmaker may change the balance of opinions in Britain's upcoming referendum on European Union membership. On Thursday, gold rallied to $1,318.90, the most since August 2014, as worries about a potential exit by the U.K. from the European Union left investors scrambling for safe haven assets. Voters in the U.K. appear to be evenly split on whether to support a departure by the U.K. from the European Union. While the "Remain" campaign held as much as a 70-30 lead several months ago, the "Leave," vote has surged ahead in several prominent polls last week. For the week, gold futures tacked on $16.30, or 1.5%, the third straight weekly gain, amid waning expectations that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates anytime soon. The Fed kept interest rates unchanged on Wednesday and dialed back forecasts for how fast it will raise rates over the next couple of years, citing concerns over the economic outlook. While the U.S. central bank retained its forecast for two rates this year, updated projections revealed that six members wanted to see one rate hike this year, compared to just one policymaker in March. Fed forecasts also show at least four fewer hikes than previously projected through 2018. Market players are pricing in a 7% chance for a rate hike in July and 24% for September, according to CME Group's (NASDAQ:CME) FedWatch tool. The yellow metal is sensitive to moves in U.S. interest rates. A gradual path to higher rates is seen as less of a threat to gold prices than a swift series of increases. Prices of the precious metal are up nearly 7% so far in June, as market players pushed back expectations for the next U.S. rate hike and amid mounting concerns the U.K. will vote to leave the European Union in a referendum this month. Elsewhere in metals trading, silver futures for July delivery fell 19.6 cents, or 1.11%, on Friday to settle at $17.41 a troy ounce, after climbing to a six-week high of $17.88 the day before. On the week, silver futures inched up 8.1 cents, or 0.47%, the third consecutive weekly rise. Also on the Comex, copper for July delivery added 0.3 cents, or 0.15%, on Friday to end at $2.051 a pound. For the week, New York-traded copper prices increased 1.2 cents, or 1.08%, snapping a two-week losing streak. In the week ahead, market players will be turning their full attention to a highly anticipated referendum on whether Britain remains in the European Union on Thursday. Prior to the referendum, Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen’s monetary policy testimony in Congress on Tuesday and Wednesday will attract the markets’ attention. In terms of U.S. data, existing and new home sales as well as durable goods orders will be in focus as traders attempt to gauge the health of the economy. Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of significant events likely to affect the markets. Tuesday, June 21 The Reserve Bank of Australia is to publish the minutes of its latest monetary policy meeting, giving investors insight into how officials view the economy and their policy options. In the euro zone, the ZEW Institute is to report on German economic sentiment. Later in the day, Fed Chair Janet Yellen is to testify on monetary policy before the Senate Banking Committee, in Washington. Wednesday, June 22 Fed Chair Janet Yellen is to testify on monetary policy before the House Financial Services Committee, in Washington. The U.S. is to report on existing home sales. Thursday, June 23 The U.K. will vote on a referendum to decide if it continues to be a part of the European Union. The euro zone is to release data on private sector business activity. The U.S. is to release data on initial jobless claims and new home sales. Friday, June 24 The Ifo Institute is to report on German business climate. The U.S. is to wrap up the week with a report on durable goods orders and revised data on consumer sentiment. 
