Title: Gold extends losses amid surging dollar, upbeat U.S. employment data
Date: 20160414
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold fell sharply on Thursday, extending a considerable sell-off from the previous session, as unexpected easing measures from the Singapore Central Bank boosted the dollar versus the yuan and upbeat U.S. economic data augmented hawkish arguments for a June interest rate hike from the Federal Reserve. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for June delivery traded in a broad range between $1,226.60 and $1,245.80 an ounce, before settling at $1,227.10 down $21.30 or 1.71% on the session. With the sharp declines, gold suffered consecutive losses of at least 1% for the first time in a month and just the third time on the calendar year. Gold has also erased all of its gains from Monday's surge when it jumped by more than $20 dollars an ounce to hit three and a half week highs. Despite the recent downturn, the precious metal is still up by more than 15% since January 1 and is on pace for one of its strongest opening halves of a year in more than a decade. Gold likely gained support at $1,063.20, the low from January 4 and was met with resistance at $1,280.70, the high from Mar. 11. Gold fell precipitously in overnight, Asian trading after the Singapore Central Bank rattled global foreign exchange markets by surprisingly introducing fresh easing measures aimed at spurring economic growth and hastening a swifter recovery in core inflation. On Thursday, the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) lowered the appreciation rate of the Singapore Dollar's nominal effective exchange rate to zero, marking the first time the central bank brought its policy band out of positive territory since 2008. In a statement released after the meeting, the MAS insisted that the policy shift only removes gradual appreciations of the effective exchange rate and was not done to "depreciate the Singapore dollar." Nevertheless, the dollar rose sharply against the Chinese yuan reaching an intraday high of 6.4876, its highest level in nearly a week. It came one day after China improved investor sentiment worldwide after reporting that exports surged by 11.5% in March on an annual basis, recovering from a decline of almost 25% in dollar terms a month earlier. The spike in exports somewhat eases widespread concerns of slowing growth in the world's second-largest economy, ahead of first quarter GDP estimates on Thursday evening. Analysts expect to see an increase of 6.8% in Chinese GDP over the first three months of the year. As a result, the U.S. Dollar Index surged to near two-week highs at 95.21 before sliding back under 95 in U.S. afternoon trading. On Monday, the index dipped below 94 to hit an eight-month low. The index measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Elsewhere, the dollar received further upside pressure after the U.S. Department of Labor reported that initial jobless claims last week fell by 13,000 to 253,000 equaling lows from early-March when the figure bottomed at the lowest level since 1973. The optimistic data followed the release of the Federal Reserve's Beige Book on Wednesday afternoon, which provided indications that domestic wages are starting to increase while the prolonged downturn in oil production could be on the verge of coming to an end. Also on Wednesday, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said weekly crude production fell by 31,000 bpd to 8.977 million bpd last week, representing the fifth straight week of declines. With the sharp reductions, U.S. output dipped below 9.0 million bpd for the first time since October, 2014. Still, the gains in the dollar were limited following the release of soft consumer inflation data on Thursday morning. In March, the Consumer Price Index inched up 0.1% for the month falling slightly below consensus estimates of 0.2% gains. The Core CPI Index, which strips out volatile food and energy prices, also rose by 0.1% one month after jumping 0.3% in February. Citing weak inflation and downbeat consumer spending Atlanta Fed president Dennis Lockhart told Bloomberg that he will not support an April rate hike, reversing his previous stance. While the Fed is not expected to raise its benchmark Federal Funds Rate when it meets at the end of this month, the U.S. central bank could normalize monetary policy at a subsequent meeting in June. Any rate hikes by the Fed this year are viewed as bearish for gold which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. Silver for May delivery lost 0.155 or 0.95% to $16.175 an ounce. Copper for May delivery ticked up by 0.003 or 0.14% to $2.171 a pound.
