Title: Gold trends weaker in Asia as investors mull Fed outlook on rates
Date: 20160120
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices dipped in Asia on Thursday as investors mulled overnight weak data from the U.S. and the prospects for Federal Reserve rate hikes this year. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for February delivery fell 0.56% to $1,100.00 a troy ounce. Silver for March delivery eased 0.04% to $14.155 a troy ounce, while copper for March delivery was flat at $1.983 a pound. Overnight, gold surged by more than 1.5% on Wednesday rising above $1,100 an ounce, as soft inflation data in the U.S. increased the possibility that the Federal Reserve could delay its next rate beyond the first quarter. On Wednesday morning, the U.S. Department of Labor said that its Consumer Price Index (CPI) for all items declined 0.1% in December on a seasonally adjusted basis, slightly below forecasts for a flat reading. The CPI for December also rose by 0.7% on a yearly basis, before seasonal adjustments, extending 0.5% gains from a month earlier. Housing and medical care prices inched up by 0.1% on the month, posting annual increases of 2.1% and 2.6% respectively. As expected, energy prices dragged down the overall index, falling more than 2% in December to end the year 12.6% lower. The Core CPI, which strips out volatile food and energy prices, also rose modestly by 0.1%, slightly below consensus estimates for monthly gains of 0.2%. The Core reading increased by 2.1% from the same period a year earlier, just above gains of 2.0% in November. By comparison, the U.S. Census Bureau said last month that its Core Personal Consumption Expenditure (PCE) index increased by 1.3% on a yearly basis for the month of November. The reading, which is the Federal Reserve's preferred gauge for inflation, fell sharply below the U.S. Central Bank's 2% objective. Analysts at the CME Group's (O:O:CME) Fed Watch tool placed the probability of a rate hike by the Federal Open Market Committee's next week at 9.5%, above estimates of 8.4% a day earlier. The CME Group also expects a 25.2% chance of a rate hike by the FOMC in March, considerably below forecasts which hovered around 50% in late-December. At the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting in Davos, Switzerland, a pair of prominent Wall Street executives offered diverging views on the path the Fed should take over the coming months. In an interview with CNBC on Wednesday morning, Ray Dalio, the founder of hedge fund Bridgewater Associates, noted that the Fed's next move should include a renewal of Quantitative Easing, not further tightening of its policies. On the contrary, JP Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon said later in an exclusive interview with the network that he still thinks another rate hike is ahead, as the markets could settle over the next few weeks. Any rate hikes by the Fed this year are viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. 
