Title: Gold dips in Asia as investors look ahead to U.S. jobs data
Date: 20160503
Content:
Investing.com - Gold edged lower on Wednesday in Asia as investors look ahead to U.S. jobs data at the end of the week for direction on the path of U.S. interest rates. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for June fell 0.27% to $1,288.30 a troy ounce. Silver futures for May delivery dropped 1,.11% to $17.640 a troy ounce, while copper futures edged up 0.05% to $2.218 a pound. Overnight, gold fell slightly on Tuesday, despite signs that a widespread global economic slowdown could resurface, as the dollar bounced off 15-month lows and a non-voting member of the Federal Reserve failed to rule out the possibility for as many as two interest rate hikes by the U.S. central bank before the end of the year. A session earlier, gold cleared the $1,300 level for the first time since last January, as soft U.S. manufacturing data pushed the dollar to its lowest levels since last summer. Over the first four months of the year, the previous metal has surged more than 21% and is on pace for one of its strongest first halves in more than a decade. On Tuesday morning, Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta president Dennis Lockhart told reporters at the 21st Annual Financial Markets Conference outside of Jacksonville, Florida, that although it is still possible for the Fed to raise short-term interest rates this year, further tightening "depends entirely on how the economy evolves." Last week, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) held its benchmark Fed Funds Rate at its current targeted range between 0.25 and 0.50%, citing an uncertain economic and inflationary outlook. Lockhart is a non-voting of the FOMC during the current cycle. Any rate hikes by the Fed this year are viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. When the Fed ended a six-year Quantitative Easing program in October, 2014, Core PCE inflation stood at 1.6%, slightly below its targeted 2% objective. When the U.S. Commerce Department released its Core PCE price index last week for April, the reading was virtually unchanged from its level 21 months earlier. At a separate panel during Tuesday's conference, Fed Cleveland president Loretta Mester, a voting member, emphasized that there's "convincing evidence," that Quantitative Easing is not infinite. Core PCE inflation, the Fed's preferred gauge of price stability, strips out volatile food and energy prices. Currently, the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan, two of the world's largest central banks, are operating large-scale asset purchasing programs in an effort to stave off deflation. While BOJ president Haruhiko Kuroda indicated that the BOJ could employ additional easing measures in March, the Japanese central bank surprised investors last week by leaving its benchmark interest rate unchanged. Also in March, the ECB increased the frequency and duration of its €1.5 trillion bond buying program, as inflation remains near historically-low levels. 
