Title: Gold prices gain in Asia after Fed on overall direction of policy track
Date: 20160316
Content:
Investing.com - Gold jumped in Asia on Thursday in the wake of a cautious Fed outlook on interest rates, though investors noted the scope for further hikes remained possible even as the forecast pace was trimmed. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for April delivery rose 2.42% to $1,259.50 a troy ounce. Silver futures for May delivery gained 2.50% to $15,600 a troy ounce, while copper futures were quoted flat at $2.254 a pound. The Federal Reserve lowered expectations for rate hikes this year bringing their forecast more in line with market expectations as they held off on raising their policy rate at the latest Federal Open Market meeting on Wednesday. As expected the Federal Open Market Committee left rates unchanged at the 0.25% to 0.50% range at the end of their two-day meeting, but made a few changes to the post-meeting statement and downgrades to their accompanying economic forecasts. Overnight, gold inched down, as metal traders exercised extreme caution ahead of the release of the Federal Reserve's policy statement. Before Wednesday's release, the U.S. Department of Labor said its Consumer Price Index fell by 0.2% in February, in line with consensus estimates of a 0.3% decline. In January, consumer inflation remained flat, amid persistently low gas prices. On an annual basis, the CPI increased 1.0% from its level 12 months, slightly below January gains of 1.4%. For the month, health care prices increased 0.5%, as costs for prescription drugs surged by nearly 1% in February. Shelter and food prices provided moderate upside pressure, while apparel prices surged by 1.6%. The Core CPI Index, which strips out volatile food and energy prices, rose 0.3% in February building on gains of 0.3% from the previous month. On a yearly basis, Core CPI jumped by 2.3%, inching up from 2.2% annual gains in January. The relatively strong reading follows optimistic PCE inflation data from a month earlier, which could compel hawkish members of the FOMC to push for an accelerated path of tightening. The Core PCE Index, the Fed's preferred gauge on inflation, soared by 1.7% in January on an annual basis, its strongest annual gain in more than a year. The FOMC is looking for signals that persistently sluggish inflation is approaching its 2% objective before it approves it raises rates again. Any rate hikes this year are viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. 
