Title: Natural gas futures extend losses after bearish U.S. storage data
Date: 20160616
Content:
Investing.com - U.S. natural gas futures added to losses in North America trade on Thursday, after data showed that natural gas supplies in storage in the U.S. rose more than expected last week. Natural gas for delivery in July on the New York Mercantile Exchange shed 2.0 cent, or 0.77%, to trade at $2.575 per million British thermal units by 14:55GMT, or 10:55AM ET. Prices were at around $2.593 prior to the release of the supply data. The U.S. Energy Information Administration said in its weekly report that natural gas storage in the U.S. in the week ended June 10 rose by 69 billion cubic feet, above forecasts for an increase of 64 billion. That compared with builds of 65 billion cubic feet in the prior week, 89 billion a year earlier and a five-year average of 86 billion cubic feet. Total U.S. natural gas storage stood at 3.041 trillion cubic feet, 20.8% higher than levels at this time a year ago and 23.2% above the five-year average for this time of year. Unless intense summer heat boosts demand from power plants, stockpiles will test physical storage limits of 4.3 trillion cubic feet at the end of October. Meanwhile, updated weather forecasting models continued to show above-normal temperatures across most parts of the U.S. over the next two weeks. Demand for natural gas tends to rise in the summer months as warmer temperatures increase the need for gas-fired electricity to power air conditioning. Natural gas prices have closely tracked weather forecasts in recent weeks, as traders try to gauge the impact of shifting outlooks on early summer cooling demand. Gas use typically hits a seasonal low with spring's mild temperatures, before warmer weather increases demand for gas-fired electricity generation to power air conditioning. Natural gas prices are up nearly 40% since falling to a 17-year low of $1.611 in early March on expectations of strong summer weather-driven demand for gas-fired electricity generation to meet air-conditioning needs. Gas use typically hits a seasonal low with spring's mild temperatures, before warmer weather increases demand for gas-fired electricity generation to power air conditioning. Elsewhere on the Nymex, crude oil for delivery in July slumped $1.67, or 3.48%, to trade at $46.34 a barrel, while heating oil for July delivery dropped 3.4% to trade at $1.427 per gallon.
