Title: Gold / Silver / Copper futures - weekly outlook: September 12 - 16
Date: 20160911
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices fell for the third straight session on Friday, pressured lower by a stronger dollar and renewed expectations for a near term interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve. Gold for December delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange fell $9.95, or 0.74%, to settle at $1,331.65 a troy ounce. For the week, the precious metal ended with a gain of 0.61% as markets continued to speculate over the timing of the next Fed rate hike. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, was up 0.31% to 95.33 late Friday, off the almost two-week lows of 94.44 set on Thursday. The dollar recovered after Boston Fed President Eric Rosengren said Friday that “a reasonable case can be made” for hiking rates in order to avoid overheating the economy. The dollar had come under pressure earlier in the week after a report on Tuesday showing that U.S. service sector activity slowed in August to its lowest level since early 2010. The weak data, coming after last week’s lackluster U.S. jobs report dampened expectations for a rate increase at the Fed’s next meeting, which is scheduled for September 20-21. The Fed raised interest rates for the first time in almost a decade in December. Investors currently price a 24% chance of a rate hike at the Fed's September meeting; according to federal funds futures tracked Investing.com's Fed Rate Monitor Tool. Gold is sensitive to moves in U.S. rates, which lift the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding assets such as bullion, while boosting the dollar in which it is priced. Also on the Comex, silver futures for December delivery was down 56 cents or 0.52% to $19.11 a troy ounce in late trade. Elsewhere in metals trading, copper for December delivery eased up 0.01 cents or 0.12% to end at $2.089 a pound. In the week ahead, investors will be looking to U.S. economic reports on retail sales and inflation for possible indications on the future direction of monetary policy. Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of these and other significant events likely to affect the markets. Monday, September 12 Japan is to release data on core machinery orders and producer prices. Tuesday, September 13 Japan is to release data on manufacturing activity. China is to produce a report on industrial production and fixed asset investment. Australia is to report on business confidence. Switzerland is to release data on producer prices. The U.K. is to report on consumer prices. The ZEW Institute is to publish a report German economic sentiment. Wednesday, September 14 New Zealand is to release data on the current account. The U.K. is to publish the monthly jobs report. Bank of England Governor Mark Carney and several other officials are to testify on inflation and the economic outlook before Parliament's Treasury Committee. Thursday, September 15 New Zealand is to publish data on second quarter growth. Financial markets in Shanghai are to remain closed for a national holiday. Australia is to publish the monthly jobs report. The Swiss National Bank is to announce its interest rate decision. The Bank of England is to announce its monetary policy decision and publish its meeting minutes. The U.S. is to publish a string of economic reports, including data on retail sales, producer prices, jobless claims, industrial production and manufacturing activity. Friday, September 16 Financial markets in Shanghai are to remain closed for a national holiday. Canada is to report on manufacturing sales and foreign securities purchases. The U.S. is to round up the week with data on consumer price inflation and preliminary data on consumer sentiment.
