Title: Gold falls towards 1-month low ahead of Fed meeting
Date: 20160726
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices extended losses from the prior session in European trade on Tuesday, falling towards a one-month low, as investors readjusted positions ahead of the Federal Reserve's two-day monetary policy meeting due to begin later in the day. The Fed is not expected to take action on interest rates at the conclusion of its meeting on Wednesday, but market players will scrutinize its policy statement for fresh hints on the timing of interest rate hikes over the next several months. Gold for December delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange dipped $2.40, or 0.18%, to trade at $1,324.80 a troy ounce by 06:53GMT, or 2:53AM ET. A day earlier, gold fell to a session low of $1,311.10 a troy ounce, just above a one-month low of $1,310.70, as renewed expectations for a Federal Reserve rate hike later this year boosted the U.S. dollar. A recent string of better than expected U.S. data reignited speculation that the Fed will raise interest rates before the end of the year. Interest rate futures are currently pricing in a 52% chance of a rate hike by December, compared with less than 20% a week ago and up from 9% at the start of this month. Gold is sensitive to moves in U.S. rates, as a rise would lift the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding assets such as bullion. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, was at 97.05 early on Tuesday, not far from a more than four-month high of 97.59, boosted by the diverging monetary policy outlook between the Fed and other global central banks. A stronger U.S. dollar usually weighs on gold, as it dampens the metal's appeal as an alternative asset and makes dollar-priced commodities more expensive for holders of other currencies. The yellow metal remained supported amid speculation central banks in Europe and Asia will step up monetary stimulus in the next few months to counteract the negative economic shock from the Brexit vote. Gold is up almost 25% for the year to date, boosted by concerns over global growth and expectations of monetary stimulus. Expectations of monetary stimulus tend to benefit gold, as the metal is seen as a safe store of value and inflation hedge. Prices surged to a more than two-year high of $1,377.50 earlier in July, as concerns surrounding global growth in wake of Britain’s vote to exit the European Union sent investors flooding into safe haven assets. 
