Title: NYMEX crude up in Asia, snow storm hit U.S. east coast in focus
Date: 20160124
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices gained in Asia on Monday with the focus on oversupply though cold weather in the eastern United States is expected to support distillate demand there. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in March rose 0.23% to $$32.27 a barrel. Earlier in Japan, the December trade balance came in at a surplus of ¥140 billion, beating a surplus of ¥100 billion seen. Exports fell 8.0%, more than the drop of 6.8% expected, while imports fell 18.0%, more than the 16.4% drop seen. In the week ahead, investors will be looking to Wednesday’s Fed policy statement for any indication that the bank is considering slowing the path of interest rate increases this year. A major snowstorm that hit the U.S. East Coast over the weekend may lead to a delay in the release of weekly crude and refined product inventory reports from industry and government and other data with the federal government expected to be shut on Monday as Washington digs out from the snow. Last week, oil futures soared 9% on Friday to move further away from the lowest level since 2003 amid heavy short covering as equity markets rallied throughout the world on the back of expectations for fresh central bank stimulus. On Thursday, prices advanced $1.18, or 4.16%, as traders closed out bets on lower prices ahead of an upcoming snowstorm in the U.S. and amid hopes that major central banks will announce fresh stimulus measures. For the week, New York-traded oil futures rose $2.99, or 9.42%, the first weekly gain in a month. The U.S. benchmark is still down nearly 13% this month amid ongoing concerns over a global supply glut. U.S. oil futures plunged below $27 on Wednesday for the first time since September 2003, as investors worried that a huge oversupply in crude was coinciding with an economic slowdown, especially in China. Elsewhere, on the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for March delivery surged $2.93, or 10.02%, on Friday to close the week at $32.18 a barrel. A day earlier, prices climbed $1.37, or 4.91%. Market analysts viewed the 14% surge on Thursday and Friday as a classic dead-cat bounce from oversold conditions. Gains were likely to remain limited in the near-term amid a persistent global supply glut and worries over the health of the global economy, particularly China. China is the world's second largest oil consumer after the U.S. and has been the engine of strengthening demand.Global crude production is outpacing demand following a boom in U.S. shale oil and after a decision by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries last year not to cut production in order to defend market share. Oversupply issue will be exacerbated further as Iran plans to return to the global oil market after western-imposed sanctions were lifted earlier this month. Analysts say the country could quickly ramp up exports by around 500,000 barrels. The surge in Iranian shipments is viewed as bearish for crude, which has fallen approximately 75% from its peak of $115 two summers ago, amid a glut of oversupply on markets worldwide.Most market analysts expect a global glut to worsen in the coming months due to soaring production in North America, Saudi Arabia and Russia.  
