Title: Crude turns negative as Fed boosts dollar by placing June hike on table
Date: 20160518
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude futures turned negative shortly before the close of energy markets on Wednesday afternoon after the Federal Reserve sent strong indications in its April minutes that it could raise interest rates next month, triggering a rapid increase in the slumping dollar. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for June delivery traded in a broad range between $48.00 and $48.94 a barrel before settling at $48.14, down 0.17 or 0.41% on the session. U.S. crude futures were on pace for their sixth winning session in the last seven trading days before the unexpected, last-minute sell-off. Since falling to 13-year lows at $26.05 a barrel on Feb. 11, WTI crude has surged by more than 60%. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for July delivery wavered between $48.76 and $49.84, before closing at $48.86, down 0.43 or 0.87% on the day. At one point on Wednesday, North Sea brent futures approached $50 a barrel for the second consecutive session, a key technical level it last reached on Nov. 4. Both WTI and brent crude erased previous gains on Wednesday afternoon after the Federal Reserve said it is likely to raise interest rates in June if second quarter U.S. economic data improves, as expected. In justifying a June rate hike, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) cited a weaker dollar, an improved economy, rising equity prices and diminished global financial risks. Some FOMC participants were in favor of raising short-term interest rates in April, the minutes showed, while others expressed concern of tightening too abruptly in the face of weak inflation and the prospects for an imminent economic slowdown. Last month, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) voted 9-1 to leave the target range of its benchmark Federal Funds Rate unchanged between 0.25 and 0.50%. Minutes after the release, the dollar shot up more than 0.4% to reach its highest level in more than a month. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, hit an intraday high of 95.14 in U.S. afternoon trading, its highest level since mid-April. Any rate hikes from the Fed this year are viewed as bullish for the dollar as investors pile into the greenback in order to capitalize on higher yields. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Earlier, crude pared gains from near six-month highs following the release of an unexpected build in U.S. crude inventories last week. On Wednesday morning, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said U.S. commercial crude oil inventories increased by 1.3 million barrels for the week ending on May 13 from the previous week. At 541.3 million barrels, U.S. crude oil inventories are at historically high levels for this time of year. Analysts expected to see a draw of 2.833 million barrels due to the production shutdown from the Canadian Wildfires, while the American Petroleum Institute reported a decline of 1.2 million barrels on Tuesday after the close of trading. For the week, total motor gasoline inventories decreased by 2.5 million barrels while distillate fuel inventories decreased by 3.2 million barrels. Despite the current upswing in oil prices, crude futures have still fallen by more than 55% from their peak in June, 2014, when they hit $115 a barrel.   
