Title: Oil prices struggle for direction ahead of U.S. supply data
Date: 20160510
Content:
Investing.com - Oil prices flipped between gains and losses in European trade on Tuesday, after falling sharply overnight, as market players looked ahead to fresh weekly information on U.S. stockpiles of crude and refined products. The American Petroleum Institute will release its inventories report later in the day, while Wednesday’s government report could show crude stockpiles rose by 0.5 million barrels in the week ended May 6. Crude oil for June delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange inched up 1 cent, or 0.02%, to trade at $43.45 a barrel by 06:47GMT, or 02:47AM ET, after hitting an intraday low of $43.03, the weakest level since April 26. A day earlier, Nymex prices lost $1.22, or 2.73%, after data showed rising oil stockpiles in the U.S. According to private forecaster Genscape, supply levels at the key U.S. delivery hub in Cushing, Oklahoma rose by 1.4 million barrels last week. Nymex oil prices are still up nearly 55% since falling to 13-year lows at $26.05 on February 11, as a decline in U.S. shale production boosted sentiment. However, analysts warned that market conditions remained weak due to an ongoing glut. Meanwhile, energy traders reassessed the impact of severe wildfires throughout Western Canada. Fire officials said cooler temperatures has slowed the spread of the wildfires since Sunday, easing fears over a disruption to supplies from the country's vast oil sands reserves. Fort McMurray is the center of Canada's oil sands region. About half of its crude output, or 1 million barrels per day, has been taken offline in recent days. Elsewhere, on the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for July delivery fell to a session low of $43.33 a barrel, a level not seen since April 20, before turning higher to trade at $43.85 during morning hours in London, up 22 cents, or 0.5%. On Monday, London-traded Brent futures slumped $1.74, or 3.84%, as investors shifted focus back to a global supply glut. Brent futures prices are up by roughly 60% since briefly dropping below $30 a barrel in mid-February, despite the collapse of talks at a Doha summit in April aimed at achieving a production freeze among OPEC and Non-OPEC producers. OPEC meets on June 2 in Vienna and may discuss the freeze initiative again. Meanwhile, Brent's premium to the WTI crude contract stood at 40 cents a barrel, compared to a gap of 19 cents by close of trade on Monday. 
