Title: Gold prices dip in Asia as Fed minutes come in along expected lines
Date: 20160106
Content:
Investing.com - Gold eased slightly in Asia on Thursday with Federal Reserve minutes showing the members of the policy-making board unanimous on raising rates. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for February delivery fell 0.06% to $1.091.20 a troy ounce. Silver futures for March delivery gained 0.03% to $13.980 a troy ounce, while copper futures edged up 0.09% to $2.090 a pound. The minutes from the Federal Open Market Committee's (FOMC) December meeting, released on Wednesday, showed that all of its voting members were in agreement that labor market and inflation conditions at the time were appropriate to raise short-term interest rates modestly by 25 basis points. Last month in a historic decision, the FOMC abandoned a seven-year zero interest rate policy by approving its first rate hike in nearly a decade. Previously, the FOMC's benchmark Federal Funds Rate, remained at a zero bound range between zero and 0.25% for every meeting dating back to December, 2008. Furthermore, the members agreed that all subsequent rate hikes would be gradual and would remain low in the long-run future for some time. In Australia, building approvals for November month-on-month plunged 12.7%, well below the 3.0% fall expected. Private house approvals fell 0.5% in November. As well, exports rose 1% and imports fell 1% for an overall trade balance deficit of A$2.91 billion, a tad narrower than the A$3.1 billion seen. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, rose 0.03% to 99.30. Overnight, gold surged by more than 1% on Wednesday moving to near two-month highs, as investors piled into the safe-haven asset after North Korea roiled global markets with claims that it successfully tested a miniaturized hydrogen bomb. On Wednesday morning, North Korea said it successfully exploded a nuclear device at the Punggye-ri test site at 10:00 a.m. local time, tests which were overseen by the country's leader Kim Jong-un, according to KCNA, North Korea's official state news agency. The explosion marked the isolationist nation's fourth nuclear test since 2006 and its first in nearly three years."Let the world look up to the strong, self-reliant nuclear-armed state," Kim wrote in an apparent handwritten note displayed on North Korean state TV. The tests were immediately condemned by China, North Korea's strongest ally in the region, and United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon. The three previous tests, conducted in 2006, 2009 and 2014 at the North Hamgyong Province site about 400 miles north of Pyongygang, drew intense criticism from the UN and resulted in a wide range of trade and economic sanctions. "This act is profoundly destabilizing for regional security and seriously undermines international efforts," Moon said in a speech on Wednesday morning. Kim's claims that his nation detonated a hydrogen bomb on Wednesday morning were met with extreme skepticism by South Korea's national spy agency and major international leaders abroad. The test triggered a 5.1 magnitude earthquake, the United States Geological Survey reported, nearly matching the Richter scale readings of the previous three tests. The size of the tremor is generally regarded as too small for a hydrogen test. A hydrogen bomb, which is approximately 1,000 times more powerful than a conventional atomic weapon, combines hydrogen isotopes under high temperatures to form helium. Hydrogen bombs are more compact than conventional atomic weapons and are considered small enough to fit on most ballistic missile warheads. The U.S. military deployed RC-135 sniffer planes in the area to gather air samples shortly after the tests occurred in an effort to confirm whether the North Koreans conducted a hydrogen bomb test, Pentagon sources told NBC News.Gold is viewed as a safe-haven asset for investors in periods of increased geopolitical instability. Earlier on Wednesday, Fed vice chairman Stanley Fischer told CNBC, that estimates of four interest rate hikes in 2016 were in the right "ballpark." In long-range forecasts issued last month, the Federal Open Market Committee estimated that the upper range of its benchmark Federal Funds Rate will increase by 1.0% by the end of 2016 to 1.5%. The FOMC approved a rate hike of 25 basis points on December 16 when it lifted short-term interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade. Any rate hikes are viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments.  
