Title: NYMEX, Brent crude higher after China CPI, PPI data
Date: 20160411
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices held gains in Asia on Monday on hopes for easier monetary policy in China after consumer prices for March came in weaker than expected and monthly producer prices rose. Consumer prices for March in China fell 0.4%, more than the expected 0.3% decline month-on-month and up 2.3% year-on-year, less than the 2.5% gain seen, according to official data released on Monday. Earlier, in Japan, core machinery orders dropped 0.7% for February, less than the 2.7% fall seen year-on-year. In Australia, home loans for February rose 1.5%, less than the 2.0% gain seen. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in May rose 0.38% to $39.87 a barrel. Brent crude rose 0.41% to $42.11 a barrel. Oilfield services provider Baker Hughes said the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. fell by eight last week to 354, the third straight weekly decline. Compared with the same time last year, the number of rigs has fallen by 406.A lower U.S. rig count is usually a bullish sign for oil as it signals potentially lower production in the future. In the week ahead, oil traders will be focusing on U.S. stockpile data on Tuesday and Wednesday for fresh supply-and-demand signals. As well as key economic data out of China, with Friday’s first quarter GDP report in the spotlight. Developments surrounding a potential deal between OPEC and non-OPEC producers to cap output will also be in focus. Oil traders will also keep an eye out for monthly reports from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Counties and the International Energy Agency to gauge global supply and demand levels. Last week, oil futures soared more than 6% on Friday to settle at more than two-week highs helped in part by growing hopes major oil producers will work together to cap output at a high-stakes summit later this month and amid indications U.S. shale oil producers are cutting back on drilling activity. On the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for June delivery rallied to an intraday peak of $42.01 a barrel, the most since March 22, before closing at $41.94, up $2.51, or 6.37%. Brent futures prices are up by roughly 40% since briefly dropping below $30 a barrel on February 11. Short-covering began in mid-February after Saudi Arabia and fellow OPEC members Qatar and Venezuela agreed with non-OPEC member Russia to freeze output at January levels, provided other oil exporters joined in. Despite recent gains, investors are still divided about whether a deal will be reached after all. Iran has maintained that it will not contribute to any output freeze until its crude exports return to pre-sanction levels of around 4 million barrels a day, while Saudi Arabia has signaled it will not cap output unless Iran and other major producers do so as well.  
