Title: Gold prices re-approach 1-year high amid PBOC, ECB stimulus hopes
Date: 20160301
Content:
Investing.com - Gold futures rose in European trade on Tuesday, with prices re-approaching the highest level in a year amid mounting expectations for further stimulus measures from central banks in Asia and Europe. Weak Chinese manufacturing activity data released earlier underlined concerns over the health of the world’s second largest economy and raised hopes of additional stimulus measures in the near-term to support growth. The official China manufacturing purchasing managers' index fell to a three-year low of 49.0 in February from 49.4 a month earlier, below expectations for 49.3. Meanwhile, the Caixin manufacturing purchasing managers’ index came in at 48.0 last month, contracting for the 12th straight month. The disappointing data reinforced the view that the economy remains in the midst of a gradual slowdown which will require Beijing to roll out more support in coming months. China's central bank said Monday it was cutting the amount of cash that banks must hold as reserves in a bid to boost lending, the fifth such cut since February 2015. However, the move underwhelmed markets, adding to the view in markets that world central banks are running low on options to spur growth. Meanwhile, expectations for further stimulus from the European Central Bank mounted after data on Monday showed that the euro area fell back into deflation in February for the first time in five months. The ECB is widely expected to unveil fresh measures, including a cut to its already negative deposit rate and adjustments to its asset-purchase program at its upcoming meeting on March 10. Gold for April delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange tacked on $5.90, or 0.48%, to trade at $1,240.30 a troy ounce by 09:00GMT, or 4:00AM ET. Prices of the yellow metal hit a one-year high of $1,263.90 on February 11. On Monday, gold rallied $14.00, or 1.15%, after disappointing U.S. data dampened optimism over the economic outlook and added to doubts about how fast the Federal Reserve would raise U.S. interest rates this year. Prices of the yellow metal are up nearly 17% so far this year amid indications global economic and financial headwinds could make it tough for the Fed to raise interest rates as much as it would like this year. Also on the Comex, silver futures for March delivery inched up 0.9 cents, or 0.06%, to trade at $14.90 a troy ounce during morning hours in London, while copper futures dipped 0.9 cents, or 0.45%, to $2.123 a pound. The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for nearly 45% of world consumption. 
