Title: Gold edges lower but holds above $1,100 ahead of U.S. data, ECB
Date: 20160121
Content:
Investing.com - Gold futures edged lower in Europe trade on Thursday, after rising to a more than one-week high in the prior session, as market players looked ahead to upcoming U.S. economic data as well as the European Central Bank’s policy statement amid ongoing concerns over the oil rout. Investors kept an eye on U.S. data due later in the session to gauge if the world's largest economy is strong enough to withstand further rate hikes in 2016. The U.S. is to release data on manufacturing activity in the Philadelphia region and the weekly report on initial jobless claims at 8:30AM ET. A recent batch of disappointing U.S. economic data underlined concerns that growth stalled in the fourth quarter, which could persuade the Federal Reserve to delay its next interest rate hike to the second half of this year. A gradual path to higher rates is seen as less of a threat to gold prices than a swift series of increases. Meanwhile, the European Central Bank's latest interest rate decision is due at 12:45GMT, or 7:45AM ET, Thursday, with most of the focus likely to be on President Mario Draghi's press conference 45 minutes after the announcement. The consensus is that the ECB will make no changes to interest rates, while providing a dovish statement with a clear recognition that more action is possible at some point in the future. Gold for February delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange shed $5.60, or 0.51%, to trade at $1,100.60 a troy ounce by 9:00GMT, or 4:00AM ET. A day earlier, gold rallied to $1,109.90, the most since January 8, as collapsing oil prices and heavy losses in global equity markets underpinned demand for assets perceived as safer. Gold is often seen as an alternative currency in times of global economic uncertainty and a refuge from financial risk. Also on the Comex, silver futures for March delivery dipped 5.5 cents, or 0.39%, to trade at $14.10 a troy ounce during morning hours in London. Elsewhere in metals trading, copper prices traded not far from seven-year lows as ongoing worries over global economic growth weighed. Copper is down nearly 8% so far this year as investors slashed holdings of the red metal amid persistent worries over an economic slowdown in China. The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for nearly 45% of world consumption. 
