Title: NYMEX crude falls in Asia as API build more than expected
Date: 20161115
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices fell in Asia on Wednesday as U.S. industry estimates showed another solid build in inventories. Crude oil for December delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange fell 0.13% to $45.73 a barrel. The American Petroleum Institute (API) said Tuesday crude oil inventories rose 3.65 million barrels last week, building on an increase of 4.4 million barrels the previous week and rose more than expected. Gasoline inventories recorded a slight draw of 160,000 barrels in the week while there was an increase in distillate inventories of 3.0 million barrels, the first gain in six weeks. Cushing recorded a build of 1.13 million barrels after a slight increase the previous week. Official data from the Energy Information Administration will be released Wednesday. Overnight, oil prices were higher during North America trading on Tuesday, extending overnight gains as market participants continued to weigh prospects of a coordinated production cut among major global oil producers. Elsewhere, Brent oil for January delivery on the ICE Futures Exchange in London was last quoted at 46.96 a barrel. Bloomberg reported that several OPEC members were engaged in a last-minute push to overcome divisions between the cartel’s biggest producers. Qatar, Algeria and Venezuela are leading the push to finalize a deal, while Saudi Arabia, Iraq and Iran are at odds over how to share output cuts agreed at a September meeting in Algiers, according to a delegate familiar with the talks. The oil group reached an agreement to cap output to a range of 32.5 million to 33.0 million barrels per day in talks held in Algeria in late September. However, OPEC said it won’t finalize details on individual output quotas until its next official meeting in Vienna on November 30. The cartel pumped 33.64 million barrels of crude per day in October. The figures added to skepticism over the implementation of a planned deal by OPEC to limit production. The possibility that producers could walk away empty-handed from the November meeting looms large after Iraq, Iran, Nigeria and Libya all signaled they might not take part in the proposed production cut deal. Russia’s unclear stance is also fueling uncertainty. 
