Title: Gold, silver jump in Asia as China inflation data aids sentiment
Date: 20160710
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices gained smartly in Asia on Monday with mild inflation data out of China aiding sentiment for easy monetary policies to continue regionally and globally. Gold for August delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange rose 1.11% to $1,373.50 a troy ounce. Also on the Comex, silver futures for September delivery jumped 2.24% to $20.550, while copper futures for September delivery gained 0.19% to $2.128 a pound. Later Monday, finance ministers from the euro zone are to hold a meeting in Brussels and Kansas Fed chief Esther George is to speak at an event in Missouri. At the weekend, China reported that the pace of gains in the Consumer Price Index moderated further to 1.9% year-on-year in June because of mainly weaker gains in food prices and at the slowest pace since January, when the National Bureau of Statistics changed the weighting of the basket of goods that make up the index. Food prices rose 4.6% year-on-year in June, down from a 5.9% increase in May and 7.4% jump in April. Pork prices, the biggest driver of consumer inflation in the past few months, rose by 30.1% year-on-year, down from 33.6% year-on-year in May. The data suggests that China is in a sustained period of moderate inflation even as worries about deflation have dissipated, making it less likely that the People's Bank of China will resort to aggressive monetary easing to support the economy, but also more likely it will keep rates low. Last week, gold prices declined on Friday, after data showed that the U.S. economy added the most jobs in eight months in June, but losses were limited as tepid wage growth suggested the Federal Reserve will probably not raise interest rates anytime soon. The U.S. Department of Labor said the economy added 287,000 jobs in June, blowing past expectations for 175,000 and the largest gain since October. May's payroll count was revised down to only an 11,000 increase from the previously reported 38,000. The report also showed that the unemployment rate ticked up to 4.9% last month from 4.7% in May, compared to expectations for a rise to 4.8%.Meanwhile, average hourly earnings rose 0.1% last month, disappointing expectations for a 0.2% gain. This lack of inflationary pressure implies that the Fed can still wait to move on interest rates. Markets remained skeptical about the odds of a rate hike this year. The CME Group's (NASDAQ:NASDAQ:CME) FedWatch tool is currently pricing in just a 24% of a rate hike by December. Odds for a June 2017 rate increase stood at around 35%. According to the minutes of the Fed's June policy meeting released on Wednesday, policymakers decided that interest rate hikes should stay on hold until they have a handle on the consequences of Britain's vote on European Union membership. The minutes added that officials agreed that it was “prudent to wait” for additional data before considering another rate hike. Gold has been well-supported in recent weeks amid fading expectations of a Federal Reserve rate hike in the next couple of months and as expectations mounted that central banks around the world will step up monetary stimulus to counteract the negative economic shock from the Brexit vote. Expectations of monetary stimulus tend to benefit gold, as the metal is seen as a safe store of value and inflation hedge. In the week ahead, market players will be turning their attention to key economic data out of China, with Friday’s second quarter GDP report in the spotlight. Thursday’s rate decision and monetary policy meeting minutes from the Bank of England will also be in focus, amid mountings expectations for additional stimulus in wake of the U.K.’s Brexit vote. In the U.S., investors will eye retail sales and inflation data to gauge if the world's largest economy is strong enough to withstand further rate hikes in 2016.  
