Title: Gold falls back towards $1,200 after upbeat U.S. consumer spending data
Date: 20160531
Content:
Investing.com - Gold futures fell back towards the $1,200-level in North American trade on Tuesday, adding to overnight losses after data showed U.S. consumer spending surged by the most in seven years in April, supporting the case for the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates in coming months. The Commerce Department said that personal spending climbed by 1.0% last month, above expectations for a gain of 0.7%, while personal income rose 0.4%. Meanwhile, the core PCE price index inched up 0.2% last month, meeting expectations. On an annualized basis, the core PCE price index rose 1.6%. The Federal Reserve uses core PCE as a tool to help determine whether to raise or lower interest rates, with the aim of keeping inflation at a rate of 2% or below. More U.S. data is set for release later in the session, with a report on business activity in the Chicago region at 13:45GMT or 9:45AM ET, followed by the Conference Board’s report on May consumer confidence at 14:00GMT or 10:00AM ET. Solid readings could further heighten expectations for a move as soon as the Federal Reserve's next policy meeting on June 14-15. Gold for June delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange shed $4.65, or 0.38%, to trade at $1,212.05 by 12:45GMT, or 8:45AM ET. A day earlier, gold sank to a session low of $1,199.00, a level not seen since February 17, as investors continued to factor in an increased chance of a near-term U.S. interest rate rise. Expectations for a summer rate hike mounted after Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen said late Friday that a rate increase would be appropriate in coming months if the economy continues to strengthen. St. Louis Fed President James Bullard was the latest policymaker to suggest that a rate hike in June or July is a real possibility. Speaking in Seoul on Monday, Bullard said global markets appear to be "well-prepared" for a summer interest rate hike. Traders are now pricing in a 28% chance for a rate hike in June and 60% in July, according to CME Group's (NASDAQ:CME) FedWatch tool. September odds were at about 68%. The U.S. dollar held near its highest level in more than two months against a basket of major currencies on hints the Fed is getting closer to raising interest rates. A stronger U.S. dollar usually weighs on gold, as it dampens the metal's appeal as an alternative asset and makes dollar-priced commodities more expensive for holders of other currencies. Gold futures are down nearly 7% so far in May as hawkish comments from Fed officials as well as minutes of the Fed's April meeting have convinced many analysts and investors that a rate hike in June or July is a real possibility. Gold is sensitive to moves in U.S. rates, as a rise would lift the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding assets such as bullion. Elsewhere on the Comex, silver futures for July delivery slumped 23.4 cents, or 1.44%, to trade at $16.03 a troy ounce during morning hours in New York, while copper futures declined 0.7 cents, or 0.33%, to $2.107 a pound. Copper traders will be looking out for a pair of reports on China's manufacturing sector due on Wednesday, amid ongoing concerns over the health of the world's second biggest economy. The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for nearly 45% of world consumption. 
