Title: Natural gas futures - weekly outlook: March 14 - 18
Date: 20160313
Content:
Investing.com - U.S. natural gas futures extended a rebound off 17-year lows on Friday, rising for the sixth straight session as traders continued to close out bets on lower prices after futures held above key support levels. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, natural gas for delivery in April jumped 3.4 cents, or 1.9%, on Friday to close the week at $1.822 per million British thermal units after hitting an intraday peak of $1.859, the most since February 19. For the week, natural gas futures rallied 19.4 cents, or 9.36%, halting a five-week losing streak, amid the view that futures have been low enough for long enough. Natural gas prices are up nearly 12% since falling to $1.611 on March 4, a level not seen since August 1998, as a failure to break below $1.610 prompted market players to cover short positions amid bullish chart signals. Futures received additional support as forecasts showed a return to normal weather in the eastern U.S. later this month after a warm spell. The heating season from November through March is the peak demand period for U.S. gas consumption. However, a warmer-than-normal winter due to the El Niño weather pattern has limited the amount of heating days and reduced demand for the fuel. Meanwhile, indication of reduced drilling activity was also considered bullish for prices. Baker Hughes said late Friday that the number of rigs drilling for natural gas in the U.S. decreased by three last week to 94, the lowest level since at least 1987. The number of U.S. drilling rigs is viewed as a proxy for activity in the energy industry. A lower rig count is usually a bullish sign as it signals potentially lower production in the future. Natural gas prices have been on a downward trend since early 2014, as natural gas producers, especially shale drillers, pulled near record amounts of the fuel out of the ground. Natural gas storage in the U.S. fell by 57 billion cubic feet last week, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, in line with expectations and following a draw of 48 billion cubic feet in the prior week. Total U.S. natural gas storage stood at 2.479 trillion cubic feet, 36.8% higher than levels at this time a year ago and 29.4% above the five-year average for this time of year. Some market experts worry there may be too much gas left in storage at the end of March when utilities traditionally start injecting the fuel back into storage for the next winter. The EIA's next storage report is due on Thursday, March 17. Inventories fell by 43 billion cubic feet in the same week last year, while the five-year average change for the week is a drawdown of 71 billion cubic feet. Elsewhere on the Nymex, crude oil for April delivery settled at $38.50 a barrel by close of trade on Friday, up $2.30, or 7.18%, on the week, while heating oil for April delivery jumped 4.88% on the week to settle at $1.218 per gallon. 
