Title: Gold prices fall in early Asia with China weekend data eyed
Date: 20160310
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices dipped in Asia on Friday as investors looked ahead to a weekend suite of data from China and attempted to untangle the mixed remarks from the ECB chief on the scope for further easing. At the weekend, China will report data on industrial production and retail sales. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for April delivery traded down 0.13% to $1,271.10 a troy ounce. Silver futures for March delivery rose 1.60% to $15.610 a troy ounce, while copper futures for March delivery fell 0.04% to $2.224 a pound. On Thursday, China reported that its Consumer Price Index (CPI) rose by 2.3% in February, considerably above expectations for a 1.9% increase. China is the world's largest consumer of copper, accounting for approximately 45% of the world's total. Overnight, gold closed sharply higher on a volatile day of trading, as European Central Bank president Mario Draghi rattled global markets with conflicting remarks after exceeding market expectations by unveiling a wide range of easing measures on Thursday. As expected, the European Central Bank's Governing Council approved a comprehensive set of easing initiatives on Thursday aimed at boosting economic growth throughout the euro zone and staving off deflation. The Governing Council used nearly all of the tools at its disposal to stimulate the economy by lowering three key rates at the meeting and extending the breadth and depth of its comprehensive Quantitative Easing program. As a result, gold slumped to session-lows when the euro plunged more than 1.5% against the dollar and major euro area equity markets surged by at least 2%. As part of its updated policy, the ECB lowered its deposit rate deeper into negative territory by reducing it by 0.1 to Minus-0.4%. The Governing Council also cut its marginal lending rate by 0.05 to 0.25% and its refinance rate by 0.05% to zero. At the same time, the central bank increased the size of monthly purchases with its bond-buying program by €20 billion to 80 billion a month and extended the program by several months through March, 2017. In addition, the ECB introduced a new series of Long Term Refinancing Operations (LTROs) and announced that it will be purchasing non-financial corporate debt issued by companies established in the euro zone. While Draghi noted that he expects rates to remain low through the completion of the asset purchasing program, he emphasized at a press conference on Thursday that he doesn't see a need to cut rates any further. "In taking into the account the measures to grow and return to our price stability objective we do not anticipate that it will be necessary to reduce further rates," Draghi said. "Of course new facts can change the outcome." The comments triggered a reversal in markets worldwide, as EUR/USD soared to an intraday high of 1.1194 and gold turned positive for the session. The dovish actions from the ECB could compel the Federal Reserve to delay the current pace of its tightening cycle when it meets again next week. Any rate hikes by the Fed this year are viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. 
