Title: Gold prices fall in Asia as investors take cautions approach on market
Date: 20160221
Content:
Investing.com - Gold dipped in Asia on Monday as investors stayed cautious on prospects for further gains despite easy global monetary policies. Gold for February delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange dropped 0.35% to $1,226.50 a troy ounce. Also on the Comex, silver futures for March delivery eased 0.21% to $15,340 a troy ounce., while copper futures gained 0.72% to $2.095 a pound. In the week ahead, investors will be looking to Friday’s revised data on U.S. fourth quarter gross domestic product for a fresh reading on the strength of the economy. Reports on U.S. durable goods orders and consumer confidence will also be in focus. On Monday, the euro zone is to release survey data on manufacturing and service sector activity. Germany and France are also to release individual reports. Last week, gold prices inched up on Friday, rising for the third consecutive session amid ongoing speculation the Federal Reserve could delay the pace of its tightening for the remainder of 2016. On Thursday, gold surged $14.90, or 1.23%, after minutes from the Fed’s January meeting revealed that policymakers worried that tighter global financial conditions could hit the U.S. economy and considered changing their planned path of interest rate hikes in 2016. Policymakers discussed "altering their earlier views of the appropriate path for the target range for the federal funds rate," according to the minutes. Prices of the yellow metal soared to a one-year high of $1,263.90 on February 11. Gold is up nearly 16% so far this year amid indications global economic and financial headwinds could make it tough for the Fed to raise interest rates as much as it would like this year. Market participants have all but priced out any rate hikes this year, while the Fed is anticipating four more. A gradual path to higher rates is seen as less of a threat to gold prices than a swift series of increases. 
