Title: Gold weaker in Asia with BoJ minutes cautious on inflation aims
Date: 20160508
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices dipped in Asia on Monday even as the Bank of Japan minutes saw some board members downbeat on hitting the inflation target within the current forecast, suggesting continued easy policy. Gold for June delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange eased 0.51% to $1,287.45 a troy ounce. Silver futures for July delivery dropped 0.44% to $17.450 a troy ounce, while copper futures for July delivery shed 0.28% to $2.146 a pound. The Bank of Japan published the minutes of its April policy meeting, showing some numbers expect the target date for 2% sustained inflation may need to be pushed back. In China, monthly trade data released on Sunday, which showed that both exports and imports fell more than expected in April, added to concerns over the health of the world’s second largest economy. At the same time, foreign exchange reserves rose for a second straight month. The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for nearly 45% of world consumption. Exports slumped 1.8% from a year earlier, worse than forecasts for a decline of 0.1%, while imports dropped 10.9%, compared to expectations for a fall of 5.0%. That left China with a surplus of $45.6 billion last month, the General Administration of Customs said. China will also publish data on April consumer and producer price inflation on Tuesday, followed by reports on industrial production, fixed asset investment and retail sales late on Friday. In the week ahead, investors will continue to focus on U.S. economic reports to gauge if the world's largest economy is strong enough to withstand further rate hikes in 2016, with Friday’s retail sales data in the spotlight.In addition, there are more than a half-dozen Fed speakers on tap as traders search for more clues on the timing of the next U.S. rate hike. Last week, gold prices rallied nearly 2% on Friday, after data showed the U.S. economy added the fewest number of jobs in seven months in April, raising doubts on whether the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates before the end of the year. The Labor Department reported that the U.S. economy added 160,000 jobs last month, the smallest increase since September and well below the 202,000 jobs forecast by economists. The unemployment rate remained steady at 5%. The one bright sport of the report showed that average hourly earnings rose by eight cents or 0.3%, bringing the year-on-year increase to 2.5% from 2.3% in March. The report saw investors all but abandon expectations for a June rate hike, with most investors now seeing the next U.S. rate hike coming in September. Gains were limited as remarks by a senior Federal Reserve official indicated that U.S. interest rates could still rise sooner than expected. New York Fed President William Dudley said that it was reasonable to expect two rate hikes this year despite weaker-than-expected April data on hiring. A gradual path to higher rates is seen as less of a threat to gold prices than a swift series of increases. Gold is sensitive to moves in U.S. rates, as a rise would lift the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding assets such as bullion.  
