Title: Gold ticks up, amid continuing signals of slowing global economic growth
Date: 20160408
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold inched up on Friday, extending gains from the previous session's surge, amid further indications of slowing economic conditions after the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta said U.S. GDP hardly grew during the first quarter. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for June delivery traded in a tight range between $1,231.20 and $1,243.80, before settling at $1,242.70, up 5.20 or 0.42% on the session. It came one session after gold futures surged more than 1.1%, bouncing off near five-week lows, amid broad signals of soft growth throughout the global economy. While gold is down by more than $40 an ounce since hitting 13-month highs last month, the precious metal is still up by more than 16% on the calendar year. For the week, gold posted modest gains after opening on Monday around $1,220 an ounce. Gold likely gained support at $1,063.20, the low from January 4 and was met with resistance at $1,280.70, the high from Mar. 11. On Friday morning, the Atlanta Fed said its GDPNow forecast model lowered estimates of first quarter growth to 0.1%, from previous forecasts of 0.4% earlier this week. The revisions were made following a report released by the U.S. Census Bureau earlier on Friday, which detailed sharp declines in wholesale trade inventories in February. For the month, wholesale sales dropped for the fourth straight period, while auto inventories plunged by 1.0%, suffering its largest decline since September, 2013. As a result, the forecast for the contribution of inventory investment to first-quarter real GDP growth fell from Minus–0.4 percentage points to Minus–0.7 percentage points, the Atlanta Fed said in a statement. Elsewhere, Japan's Finance Minister Taro Aso attempted to  soothe investors after the yen surged more than 1.5% against the dollar on Thursday to hit its highest level in 17 months. Investors in the U.S. and the euro zone continued to unwind their positions in equities and bonds from the yen carry trade, amid heightened concerns that the Bank of Japan is running out of options to stave off deflation. The yen has appreciated by approximately 3% against the dollar this week and 10% since the start of the year. In February, the Bank of Japan rattled global markets with an unexpected move to lower interest rates into negative territory for the first time in its history. "We are watching moves with a sense of tension," Aso told reporters after the dollar fell under 108 against the yen for the first time since November, 2014. "We will take necessary steps in accordance with circumstances." Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen, meanwhile, attempted to reassure investors on Thursday evening that the U.S. economy remains on solid footing even as she has expressed hesitancy to raise interest rates due to increased global financial risks. Yellen made the comments at a panel discussion at the International House of New York alongside former Fed chairmen Ben Bernanke and Paul Volcker. "This is an economy on a solid course, not a bubble economy," Yellen said. "It has made tremendous progress from the damage of the financial crisis." Gold is viewed as a safe haven for investors in periods of heightened economic instability. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, fell more than 0.30% to an intraday low of 94.09, before rallying slightly to 94.23 in U.S. afternoon trading. The index remains near five-month lows. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Silver for May delivery added 0.202 or 1.33% to $15.360 an ounce. Copper for May delivery gained 0.010 or 0.46% to $2.086 a pound. 
