Title: Crude slips back below $40, ahead of weekly API inventory report
Date: 20160802
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude futures fell considerably, dropping to fresh 14-week lows, as investors awaited further signs of potential volatility on global energy markets, ahead of the American Petroleum Institute's weekly crude inventory report on Tuesday evening. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for September delivery traded between $39.27 and $40.88 a barrel before closing at $39.49, down 0.57 or 1.39% on the session. WTI remains squarely in bear market territory, now down by approximately 23% from June-highs when it traded at $51.67 a barrel. At one point on Tuesday, the front month contract for U.S. crude touched a key technical level when it slid below its 200-day moving average. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for October delivery wavered between $41.52 and $43.16 a barrel, before settling at $41.78, down 0.34 or 0.81% on the day. Crude prices fluctuated wildly on Tuesday in a volatile day of trading, erasing gains from the morning session triggered by sharp declines in the dollar. Hours later, however, oil futures fell back below the critical $40 level amid persistent concerns of oversupply worldwide. A session earlier, oil plunged nearly 4% to dip under $40 for the first time since a highly-anticipated Doha agreement collapsed in mid-April. Investors continue to closely monitor activity on the options markets, after short positions in WTI increased last week by nearly 39,000 for the week ending on July 26, data from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) shows. The sharp rise in short bets on WTI options and futures marked the biggest weekly increase dating back to 2006, according to the CFTC. Investors could receive further indications on the supply-demand balance on U.S. markets when the American Petroleum Institute releases its latest weekly crude stockpile report after the close of trading on Tuesday. Separately, Wednesday's government report could show that crude inventories nationwide fell by 1.9 million barrels for the week ending on July 29. A week earlier, inventories unexpectedly rose by 1.7 million barrels, halting a streak of nine consecutive weekly draws. Additionally, gasoline inventories are expected to decline by 1.0 million barrels on the week, while distillate fuel inventories could fall by 833,000 barrels, analysts say. Gasoline inventories have swelled to a near-record high of 500 million barrels worldwide, according to analysts from  Citigroup  Inc (NYSE:C), as refineries churn out product at a rapid pace amid low crude prices. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, fell sharply on Tuesday to an intraday low of 94.94, slipping below 95 for the first time since June 24. The Dollar has been in freefall since hitting four-month highs at 97.62 early last week. Dollar-denominated commodities such as Crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. 
