Title: Gold inches up amid weak dollar as investors digest Fed, ECB minutes
Date: 20160818
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold inched up as the dollar fell to a seven-week low against its main rivals, while investors digested minutes from the Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank for further indications on the scope and duration of a host of low interest rate policies from major central banks throughout the world. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, Gold for December delivery traded between $1,351.25 and $1,361.45 an ounce before settling at $1,357.05, up 8.25 or 0.61% on the session. Gold has closed higher in three of the last four sessions and five of the last eight trading days. Since opening the year around $1,075 an ounce, the precious metal has soared more than 25% over the first seven months of 2016 and is on pace for one of its strongest years in the last three decades. Gold likely gained support at $1,312.80, the low from July 21 and was met with resistance at $1,374.90, the high from July 6. Metal traders continued to react to opaque minutes from the Federal Open Market Committee's (FOMC) July meeting, which provided few signals on whether the U.S. central bank could raise short-term interest rates before the end of the year. While some participants felt that economic conditions would soon warrant "taking another step in removing policy accommodation," at the two-day meeting on July 26-27, others judged that it would be appropriate to wait for further incoming data on the U.S. price stability as long-term inflation continues to hover below the Fed's targeted goal of 2%. Earlier this week, New York Fed president William Dudley said the timing could be right for additional tightening from the Fed, while leaving a potential September rate hike on the table. On Thursday morning, the European Central Bank released the minutes from the Governing Council's July meeting, its first since the U.K. shocked markets with a surprising decision to leave the European Union in late-June. At the meeting, policymakers discussed steps to "contain the political uncertainty" surrounding the Brexit negotiations and "provide a clear vision," for the future path of the European Union, according to the minutes. While underscoring that the Brexit referendum provided a headwind to financial markets, the Governing Council left its benchmark interest rate unchanged at zero in July for the fourth straight month. "It was widely felt among members that it was premature to discuss any possible monetary policy reaction at this stage," the minutes showed. "More time was needed to assess the incoming information over the coming months, although downside risks had clearly increased." Historically, low interest rate periods are viewed as bullish for the yellow metal. Gold, which is not attached to dividends or interest rates, struggles to compete with high-yields in rising rate environments. Elsewhere, there were 262,000 initial unemployment claims filed in the U.S. last week, a decline of 4,000 from the previous week. It marked the 76th consecutive week that new jobless claims fell under 300,000, representing the first time of such an occurrence in 43 years. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, crashed by more than 0.40% to an intraday low of 94.24, its lowest level since June 24. Since hitting a four-month high at 97.62 in late-July, the Dollar has retreated by more than 2%. Dollar-denominated commodities such as Gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Silver for September delivery gained 0.100 or 0.51% to 19.748 an ounce. Copper for September delivery added 0.017 or 0.79% to 2.169 a pound
