Title: Gold / Silver / Copper futures - weekly outlook: October 17 - 21
Date: 20161016
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices fell on Friday as a stronger dollar and heightened expectations for a U.S. rate hike later this year weighed on the precious metal. Gold for December delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange fell $6.00, or 0.48%, to settle at $1,251.6 a troy ounce. The dollar rebounded to almost seven-month highs as solid data on U.S. retail sales and producer prices bolstered expectations for a rate hike by the Fed in the coming months. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, rose 0.56% to 98.08 late Friday and ended the week up 1.4%. The upbeat economic reports came after Wednesday’s minutes of the Fed’s September meeting showed several officials believed it would be appropriate to raise interest rates "relatively soon" if the economy continued to improve. The U.S. central bank raised rates for the first time in almost a decade in December, but rates have remained on hold since then amid concerns over sluggish inflation. The Fed’s next meeting is in November, but a rate hike ahead of the presidential election is seen as unlikely. Investors currently price a 64% chance of a rate hike at the Fed's December meeting; according to federal funds futures tracked Investing.com's Fed Rate Monitor Tool. Gold is sensitive to moves in U.S. rates, which lift the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding assets such as bullion, while boosting the dollar in which it is priced. Also on the Comex, silver futures for December delivery were at $17.42 a troy ounce in late trade. Elsewhere in metals trading, copper for December delivery settled at $2.105 a pound. Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of significant events likely to affect the markets. Monday, October 17 The euro zone is to publish revised data on inflation. The U.S. is to release reports on industrial production and manufacturing activity in the New York region. European Central Bank President Mario Draghi is to speak at an event in Frankfurt. Fed Vice-Chair Stanley Fischer is to speak in New York. Tuesday, October 18 Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Phillip Lowe is to speak in Sydney. The RBA is to publish the minutes of its latest monetary policy meeting, giving investors insight into how officials view the economy and their policy options. New Zealand is to release inflation data. The U.K. is to publish its monthly inflation report. Canada is to report on manufacturing sales. The U.S. is to release inflation figures. Wednesday, October 19 China is to publish data on third quarter economic growth and industrial production. The U.K. is to release its monthly employment report. The U.S. is to produce data on building permits and housing starts. The Bank of Canada is to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish its rate statement, which outlines economic conditions and the factors affecting the monetary policy decision. The announcement is to be followed by a press conference. Thursday, October 20 Australia is to release its latest jobs report, as well as private sector data on business confidence. The U.K. is to report on retail sales. The ECB is to announce its benchmark interest rate. The policy meeting is to be followed by a press conference with President Mario Draghi. The U.S. is to produce data on jobless claims, existing home sales and manufacturing activity in the Philadelphia region. Friday, October 21 The U.K. is to release data on public sector borrowing. Canada is to round up the week with reports on retail sales and inflation.
