Title: NYMEX, Brent crude gain as API reports 3.9 mln barrels draw last week
Date: 20160628
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices gained further in Asia on Wednesday after industry estimates showed a drop in U.S. crude stockpiles. The American Petroleum Institute reported that U.S. crude supplies fell by 3.9 million barrels for the week ended June 24, according to sources. Later on Wednesday more closely watched data on crude and refined products will be released by the U.S. Department of Energy. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for August delivery rose 0.88% to $48.27 a barrel. On the Intercontinental Exchange, Brent gained 0.63% to $49.57 a barrel. Overnight, U.S. crude halted a three-day losing skid on Tuesday, amid an easing dollar, as threats of an impending worker strike in Norway offset continuing fears of a potential recession throughout the euro area in the wake of last week's historic Brexit referendum. U.S. crude futures are still up more than 60% from 13-year lows in mid-February at $26.05 a barrel.Crude prices received a boost on Tuesday from news out of Norway that up to 7,500 workers in the oil and gas industry could go on strike on Saturday if a new labor deal is not reached later this week. The union workers in Norway, one of the top crude producers in the euro area, are hoping to complete a new wage deal before midnight on July 1. Last week, Reuters reported that 280 rig workers on Rowan Companies' Viking and Gorilla rigs and a host of state-run oil fields received a 0.5% wage hike to avert a potential strike, according to a state-appointed mediator. Last month, the International Energy Agency (IEA) reported that Norway pumped nearly 2 million barrels per day, representing 2.1% of the world's total monthly output. In Scotland, meanwhile, Parliament approved a vote to provide first minister Nicola Sturgeon with a mandate to begin discussions to protect Scotland's relationship with the EU. Scotland voters backed the Remain campaign by a 62-38% margin, raising concerns that the nation could seek a re-vote on a 2014 referendum to leave the E.U. If successful, a bitter land dispute between ensue between the U.K. and Scotland on a swath of oil fields in the areas surrounding the North Sea. Analysts from Goldman Sachs (NYSE:NYSE:NYSE:GS) predicted that last week's Brexit vote could tip the U.K. into mild recession by early next year. A number of prominent oil experts have expressed significant concerns that demand for crude could falter if economic growth throughout the euro area declines sharply.  
