Title: OPEC meeting to reestablish unity, not oil production freeze
Date: 20160601
Content:
Investing.com – As several energy ministers from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) gathered in Vienna a day ahead of the anticipated bi-annual meeting on Thursday, remarks made it abundantly clear that the focus would be on reestablishing ties rather than taking steps to freeze crude oil output. At the April meeting of major oil producers in Doha, OPEC failed to reach an agreement on a production freeze with non-OPEC countries after Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest exporter, said it would not participate as long as Iran continued to raise its output towards pre-sanction levels. In that light, little seemed to have changed as comments from Iran\'s representative to OPEC, Mehdi Asali, indicated on Wednesday. "Iran supports OPEC’s efforts to bring stability to the market with fair and logical prices, but it will not commit to any output freeze," Asali was quoted as saying by Iranian oil ministry news agency Shana. "The issue of output rationing can be discussed after the market stabilizes," he added. Along the same lines, Saudi Arabia’s energy minister Khalid al-Falih was planning only on reestablishing the ties between OPEC members after the rift caused over the Doha meeting, according to sources quoted by Bloomberg. Al-Falih was expected to promise that Saudi Arabia would not flood the market and could be open to a reintroduction of an overall quota for the group, according to the report. Al-Falih was appointed as Saudi Arabia’s new energy minister this month as Riyadh unveiled radical plans to overhaul the kingdom’s economy and dramatically reduce its dependence on oil. Morgan Stanley indicated in a note to clients released on Tuesday that Saudi Arabia’s comments on oil markets and OPEC’S role, as well as Iran’s production outlook and oil policy would be of particular interest. Overall, analysts generally expected the group to limit their statement to general support for the current condition of oil markets and their consideration that the market was rebalancing, reducing any need for intervention. As an example, United Arab Emirates oil minister Suhail bin Mohammed al-Mazroui said Tuesday that the oil market has been correcting upwards of late and that he is happy with the market\'s current state. After falling to 13-year lows at $26.05 on February 11, oil prices have rebounded around 80% and briefly rose above the $50 per barrel level last week. The OPEC meeting on Thursday is tentatively scheduled to begin at 8:00AM GMT or 4:00AM ET, with a press conference expected at 14:00GMT or 10:00AM ET.
