Title: U.S. natural gas turns lower after approaching 2-month highs
Date: 20160913
Content:
Investing.com - U.S. natural gas futures declined on Tuesday, turning lower after approaching a two-month high amid forecasts for warmer than normal temperatures across most parts of the continental U.S. in the days ahead. Natural gas for delivery in October on the New York Mercantile Exchange rose to an intraday peak of $2.942 per million British thermal units, just below a two-month high of $2.944. It was last at $2.897 by 10:39AM ET (14:39GMT), down 1.8 cents, or 0.62%. A day earlier, gas futures surged 11.8 cents, or 4.22%, after updated weather forecasting models pointed to very warm late summer temperatures into next week, boosting demand expectations for the cooling fuel. Demand for natural gas tends to rise in the summer months as warmer temperatures increase the need for gas-fired electricity to power air conditioning. Meanwhile, market players looked ahead to weekly supply data due on Thursday, which is expected to show a build of approximately 66 billion cubic feet in the week ended September 9. That compares with a gain of 36 billion cubic feet in the preceding week, 74 billion a year earlier and a five-year average build of 69 billion cubic feet. Total gas in storage currently stands at 3.437 trillion cubic feet, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, 5.7% higher than levels at this time a year ago and 8.9% above the five-year average for this time of year. Despite the recent rally, gains are likely to remain limited as traders react to the reality that higher summer demand for the commodity is coming to an end. Demand for natural gas tends to rise in the summer months as warmer temperatures increase the need for gas-fired electricity to power air conditioning. But with autumn due to start on September 22, power burns to feed air conditioning demand have probably peaked for now, market analysts said. Unless intense late-summer heat boosts demand from power plants, stockpiles could possibly test physical storage limits of 4.3 trillion cubic feet at the end of October. 
