Title: NYMEX crude gains in Asia after early weakness with output in focus
Date: 20160228
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil gained in Asia after early weakness on Monday with investors watching to see if efforts to trim supply work. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in April rose 0.61% to $32.98 a barrel. Brent gained 2.11% to $35.84 a barrel. In the week ahead, oil traders will be focusing on U.S. stockpile data on Tuesday and Wednesday, amid mounting concerns over a domestic supply glut.Developments surrounding a potential deal between OPEC and non-OPEC producers to cap output will also be in focus. Last week, Oil prices fell in choppy trade on Friday, erasing gains towards the end of the session as investors booked profits from an earlier rally which took prices to a two-month high. On the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for April delivery shed 19 cents, or 0.54%, on Friday to close the week at $35.10 a barrel after climbing to an intraday peak of $37.00, the most since January 5. Venezuela oil Minister Eulogio Del Pino said late Thursday that four oil-producing countries, including Saudi Arabia, Russia and Qatar, will meet in mid-March to discuss efforts to stabilize the market. Top oil producers Russia and Saudi Arabia agreed to freeze oil production at January levels earlier this month, provided other oil exporters joined in. But Iran stopped short of committing to the proposal, casting doubts over whether the freeze will happen. Futures turned lower after industry research group Baker Hughes said late Friday that the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. decreased by 13 last week to 400, the tenth straight weekly decline. A lower U.S. rig count is usually a bullish sign for oil as it signals potentially lower production in the future. However, analysts warned that market conditions remained weak due to an ongoing glut. U.S. crude stockpiles increased by 3.5 million barrels last week to an all-time high of 507.6 million barrels, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, underlining concerns over a domestic supply glut. Supplies at Cushing, Oklahoma, the key delivery point for Nymex crude, rose by 333,000 barrels last week, raising fears that the nation's largest storage facility is nearing full capacity.  
