Title: Gold jumps 1% as weak oil, dollar, stocks boost haven demand
Date: 20160125
Content:
Investing.com - Gold futures rallied in North America trade on Monday, as retreating oil prices, a weaker dollar and losses in global equity markets underpinned demand for assets perceived as safer. Gold for February delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange jumped $11.10, or 1.01%, to trade at $1,107.40 a troy ounce by 14:45GMT, or 9:45AM ET. Global stock markets declined as a renewed drop in oil prices hit market sentiment and fueled risk aversion. Meanwhile, the U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, shed 0.3% to 99.30. Investors looked ahead to this week’s Federal Reserve policy statement for any indication that the bank is considering slowing the path of interest rate increases this year. The Fed is not expected to take action on interest rates at the conclusion of its two day policy meeting at 19:00GMT, or 2:00PM ET, on Wednesday, but it will be watched for any change in tone about the economy or future rate hikes. Many in the market anticipate the pace of future increases to be gradual amid concerns over tepid growth overseas and indications that U.S. economic growth stalled in the fourth quarter. A gradual path to higher rates is seen as less of a threat to gold prices than a swift series of increases. Market participants will also be looking to Friday’s data on U.S. fourth quarter gross domestic product, which is expected to show that growth slowed to a modest 0.8% from 2.0% in the third quarter. Gold prices rose $7.40, or 0.52%, last week. Prices of the precious metal are up 5% so far this year as investors sought refuge from turmoil in global equity markets. Gold is often seen as an alternative currency in times of global economic uncertainty and a refuge from financial risk. Also on the Comex, silver futures for March delivery rose 14.8 cents, or 1.05%, to trade at $14.20 a troy ounce during morning hours in New York. Elsewhere in metals trading, copper fell from the prior session’s two-week high as ongoing worries over global economic growth weighed. Copper is down nearly 6% so far this year as investors slashed holdings of the red metal amid persistent worries over an economic slowdown in China. The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for nearly 45% of world consumption. 
