Title: Gold drops in Asia as investors await U.S. retail sales, other data
Date: 20160512
Content:
Investing.com - Gold eased in Asia on Friday ahead of data in the U.S. on retail sales that will drive views on possible next moves by the Federal Reserve on rates. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for June delivery eased 0.19% to $1,268.75 a troy ounce. Silver futures for July delivery fell 0.25% to $17.060 a troy ounce, while copper futures dipped 0.10% to $2.072 a pound. Overnight, gold inched down on Thursday, amid a slightly appreciating dollar, as investors awaited the release of a wave of key U.S. economic data at week's end for further signals on the pace of second quarter GDP growth in the world's largest economy. While gold has closed lower in six of the last eight sessions, the precious metal still remains near 15-month highs from the start of the month. For the most part, metal traders proceeded cautiously on Thursday ahead of the release of monthly U.S. retail and consumer reports to close the week. On Friday morning, the U.S. Census Bureau is expected to report a sharp increase in retail sales for the month of April, follow a mild decline a month earlier. Fueled by continuing strength in auto sales, retail sales are expected to surge 0.9% in April, one month after decreasing slightly by 0.3%. Shortly after, the University of Michigan could report a 0.7 increase in the preliminary May reading of its Consumer Sentiment Index, rebounding from a surprising downturn last month. In April's final reading, Michigan's Consumer Survey Center said sentiment fell by 0.7 to 89.0, dropping to the lowest level since September. Also on Friday, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics is expected to report a 0.3% increase in its Producer Price Index (PPI) for April, following a 0.1% decline a month earlier. The Core PPI Index, which strips out volatile food and energy prices, is expected to increase 0.1% one month after falling 0.1% in March. Meanwhile, the Labor Department said Thursday that initial jobless claims last week rose by 20,000 to 294,000, defying expectations for an increase of 17,000. It followed a solid JOLTs report from the Labor Department on Tuesday, which showed that job openings in March rose by 149,000 on a seasonally-adjusted basis, lifting the job opening rate by 0.1% to 3.9%. The report came in the wake of a relatively soft April employment report last week, which documented the lowest pace of gains among nonfarm payrolls in seven months. The Federal Reserve has continually reiterated that it is taking a data-driven approach to the timing of its first interest rate hike in 2016. In December, the Fed ended a seven-year zero interest rate policy by lifting its benchmark Federal Funds Rate 25 basis points to a targeted range between 0.25 and 0.50%. In three subsequent meetings, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) has left short-term rates steady, fueling speculation that the U.S. central bank could delay its next rate hike until September. Any rate hikes by the Fed this year are viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. 
