Title: NYMEX crude down in early Asia as investors look ahead to API data
Date: 20160606
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices drifted lower in Asia on Tuesday with data out of the U.S. now in focus for the demand picture with gasoline stocks possibly providing a window on demand as the summer driving season is underway. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for July delivery fell 0.26% to $29.46 a barrel. The American Petroleum Institute will release its estimates of crude and refined product stocks in the U.S. at the end of last week late on Tuesday, while more closely-watched data from the U.S. Department of Energy is due on Wednesday. Overnight, crude futures remained near 8-month highs, while Brent settled at its highest closing level of 2016 as fresh supply outages in Nigeria helped temporarily ease concerns related to persistent supply glut on global energy markets. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude for August delivery wavered between $49.78 and $50.83 a barrel, before closing at $50.51, up 0.86 or 1.73% on the day. Crude defied expectations for a sizable crash last week by moving only fractionally lower after OPEC concluded its semi-annual meeting without making any progress on a comprehensive output freeze between a host of major oil producers. While Iran and Saudi Arabia reportedly went to great lengths to appear conciliatory in public, the two main Persian Gulf rivals failed to reach a consensus on a long-term plan that could result in helping lift oil back to 2014 levels. Despite the recent bounce in oil prices, crude is still down more than 50% from its peak two years ago when it topped out at $115 a barrel. OPEC is scheduled to meet next in late-November. Elsewhere, the latest series of attacks by a group of militants known as the Niger Delta Avengers pushed daily output in Nigeria below 1 million barrels per day, Reuters reported. As the group sabotaged facilities in Southern Nigeria on Monday, production of Bonny Light crude in the region continued to fall sharply extending losses from last month when the rogue group staged at least 10 separate attacks. Since the onset of the strikes, output of Bonny Light has declined by more than 500,000 bpd. Nationwide, crude production in Nigeria last month fell to its lowest level in more than two decades. The production disruptions in Nigeria have helped narrow the wide supply-demand imbalance on global markets. Each day producers worldwide pumped an average of 96 million barrels of oil during the first quarter, according to the Paris-based International Energy Agency, as supply outpaced demand by 1.4 million bpd. 
