Title: Gold prices drop in Asia as investors mull Fed steps after U.S. jobs
Date: 20160306
Content:
Investing.com - Gold dropped in Asia on Monday as investors digested U.S. jobs data from last week for cues on the next Fed move on interest rates. Gold for April delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange eased 0.79% to $1,260.60 a troy ounce. Also on the Comex, silver futures for March delivery dropped 0.93% to $15.535 a troy ounce, while copper futures for May delivery fell 0.35% to $2.253 a pound. Prices of the red metal have been well-supported in recent weeks amid mounting expectations for further stimulus measures from central banks in Europe and Asia. At the weekend, China outlined growth and other aims for the economy at an annual meeting of senior leaders that signalled GDP growth of 6.5%, or above. In the week ahead, market players will be focusing on the outcome of Thursday’s European Central Bank meeting amid growing indications the central bank could ramp up its monetary stimulus program and push rates further into negative territory. Meanwhile, China is to release what will be closely watched trade and inflation data amid ongoing concerns over the health of the world's second biggest economy. On Monday, the Eurogroup of euro zone finance ministers are to hold talks in Brussels. Later, Federal Reserve Governor Lael Brainard and Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer are due to speak at public events throughout the day. Last week, gold prices rallied to a 13-month peak on Friday, as investors scaled back expectations on how fast and how far the Federal Reserve might raise interest rates this year after U.S. employment data showed strong jobs growth combined with low wages. The U.S. Labor Department reported Friday that the economy added a more-than-expected 242,000 jobs last month, while the unemployment rate held steady at 4.9%. However, average hourly earnings fell 0.1% last month, representing the first monthly decline in wages in more than a year. The mixed data lessened the threat of an early interest rate hike from the Federal Reserve, boosting the appeal of the precious metal and sending the dollar broadly lower.The dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, shed 0.37% on Friday to end the session at 97.25, the lowest since February 22. Dollar weakness usually benefits gold, as it boosts the metal's appeal as an alternative asset and makes dollar-priced commodities cheaper for holders of other currencies.For the week, gold prices tacked on $51.30, or 4.11%. Prices of the yellow metal are up nearly 18% so far this year as investors seek safe havens in the face of mounting instability in other financial markets.  
