Title: Gold lower as U.S. data points to Fed rate hike
Date: 20161129
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices were lower Tuesday as upbeat U.S. economic reports underlined the view that the Federal Reserve will hike interest rates in December, underpinning dollar demand. Gold was trading at $1,185.5 a troy ounce by 10:29 ET, after falling as low as $1,179.00 earlier. Data on Tuesday showed that the U.S. economy grew at a quicker than expected rate in the third quarter, expanding at the fastest pace in two years. The Commerce Department reported that gross domestic product grew by 3.2% on a year-over-year basis, up from the previously reported estimate of 2.9%. Another report showed that U.S. consumer confidence rebounded strongly in November, after a moderate decline in October. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, was last at 101.24. Gold is priced in dollars and becomes less attractive to holders of other currencies when the dollar rises. According to Investing.com's Fed Rate Monitor Tool, 95.4% of traders expect the Fed to raise interest rates at its policy meeting in December. Gold is sensitive to moves in U.S. rates, which lift the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding assets such as bullion, while boosting the dollar in which it is priced. Prices of the yellow metal have fallen more than 6% so far this month on expectations that increased U.S. fiscal spending under a Trump administration will spur economic growth and inflation, which would ultimately lead to an era of higher interest rates. Traders were also keeping an eye on oil prices as they assessed the likelihood that OPEC members would reach a deal on output cuts ahead of Wednesday’s key meeting. A production cut would prop up oil prices and bolster the currencies of oil exporting countries such as Canada and Russia. Elsewhere in metals trading, silver futures were at $16.62 a troy ounce, while copper futures traded at $2.606 a pound. Copper prices have climbed around 18% this month on hopes that infrastructure plans in top consumers China and the U.S. will bolster demand for the industrial metal. 
