Title: Gold prices down slightly in early Asia, Fed comments awaited
Date: 20160126
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices fell slightly in early Asia on Wednesday with remarks from the latest Federal Reserve policy meeting a key focus, especially any comment about the economic wobbles in China. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for February delivery eased 0.03% to $1,119.60 a troy ounce. Silver for March delivery fell 0.14% to $14.470 an ounce. Copper for March delivery aeased 0.02% to $2.036 a pound. Overnight, gold extended sharp gains from the previous session on Tuesday surging to three-month highs, as equities in China plunged to their lowest level in more than a year exacerbating concerns on a potential global recession. Continued declines in oil weighed on Chinese stocks, as the Shanghai Composite index plummeted more than 6% to 2,749.79, its lowest level since December, 2014. The index suffered its worst one-day loss since the People's Bank of China removed a circuit breaker apparatus, which analysts blamed for triggering a series of major sell-offs at the start of the month. Investors continued to digest bearish comments from billionaire investor George Soros on further weakness in China after the world's second-largest economy reported its slowest pace of economic growth last year in a quarter century. At a closely-watched speech last week in Davos, Switzerland, Soros disclosed that he is taking a large short position in Asian currencies, amid worries that the downturn in China could create spillover effects into the global economy at-large. "A hard landing (in China) is practically unavoidable," Soros said in an interview with Bloomberg at the World Economic Forum. "I'm not expecting it, I'm observing it." Hoping to prevent additional capital outflows and devaluations of the yuan, the chief of China's National Bureau of Statistics fired back, dismissing Soros' comments as coming from only a "single voice". The People's Daily, the Communist Party's main newspaper, also had harsh words for the famed philanthropist, describing any challenge to Chinese currency "as futile." Separately, China's Central Commission for Discipline Inspection announced on Tuesday that Mr. Wang is facing serious discipline violations without specifying the allegations. Gold is viewed as a safe-haven asset for investors in periods of severe economic instability. Investors await the completion of the Federal Open Market Committee's two-day January meeting on Wednesday for further signals on the U.S. central bank's path over the next 18 months, as it embarks on its first tightening cycle in more than a decade. The interest rate decision will be the FOMC's first since it voted unanimously to abandon a seven-year Zero Interest Rate Policy at a historic meeting in December. The Fed is widely expected to leave its benchmark Federal Funds Rate unchanged at a level between 0.25 and 0.50%. The CME Group's (O:O:CME) Fed Watch tool placed the implied probability of a 25 basis point hike on Wednesday of 13.1%, up from 11.9% a session earlier. Any interest rate hikes this year are viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. 
