Title: Oil surges on hopes OPEC deal will be ‘shock and awe’ before meeting end
Date: 20161130
Content:
Investing.com – With the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) gathered in Vienna on Wednesday to finalize a deal on limiting output, markets were still betting that a “shock and awe” agreement would be the final outcome, even as some experts warned that the “meeting is not over”. At 7:52 AM ET (12:52GMT), oil was spiking around 7% on Wednesday after various OPEC officials gave an optimistic outlook for an agreement to be reached to cut overall production. Saudi energy minister Khalid al-Falih said Wednesday that his country was prepared to accept "a big hit" on its own production and agree to Iran freezing output at pre-sanctions levels. Falih noted that discussions were focused on reducing production to the lower range of the September Algiers accord at 32.5 million barrels per day, implying a cut of more than one million barrels, and added that his hopes were for Russian and other non-OPEC countries to reduce by around 600,000 barrels. Reports are putting the total cut in production at around 1.4 million barrels and suggesting that the non-OPEC portion of the reduction may be discussed at a gathering of major oil producers on December 8-9. Not a done deal However, the deal has yet to be set in stone with an OPEC communiqué and press conference tentatively scheduled for 10:00AM ET (15:00GMT). Even Falih himself left room for maneuvering as he stated that the “big hit” that Saudi Arabia would take to production was dependent on making sure that “there is consensus and an agreement to meet all of the principles." He repeated earlier remarks that non-OPEC production increases had reversed course and felt that most of the growth in OPEC producer output was in the past. “If we can’t come to an agreement, then the other scenario of rolling over and waiting for the market to recover on its own is not a bad outcome," Falih explained. If current reports coincide with Wednesday’s eventual outcome, it would be most similar to what  Morgan Stanley  (NYSE:MS) had identified on Tuesday as a “shock and awe” outcome. “A surprisingly large cut and non-OPEC cooperation could potentially put the market back in balance in early 2017 and send prices into a new trading range,” these experts said in the prior day’s report, signaling it as an unlikely outcome. Most analysts had indicated that their base call was a headline agreement to announce a max quota for the entire group in order to buy more time and support prices, even without a concrete plan for execution. Apparently largely missed by markets in the buying euphoria on Wednesday, Reuters quoted Russian energy sources that said the requested 400,000 barrel cut for Moscow might be a “bit excessive”. The OPEC request for major oil producers to participate in the agreement may well be put on the backburner until the beginning of December. Venezuelan energy minister Eugenio del Pino told reporters that they were planning a meeting between the cartel and non-OPEC members including Russia for December 8-9, according to news agency EFE. The participation could be a key part of the “wait and see stance” as Energy Intelligence Group reported that “an OPEC deal will not be implemented without a non-OPEC cut”. Meanwhile, sources told Reuters that as the meeting progressed on Wednesday, OPEC members were still discussing Iraq and that the debate on output cuts was ongoing. Energy Intelligence Group advised market participants not to rule out a “no deal” as “the meeting is not over.” With regard to the pending OPEC decision, analysts from Macquarie warned that a “no deal” could send oil prices crashing from current levels. “We believe a failed effort will force prices below $40 and perhaps event to the low 30s for a short period of time,” they warned. At 7:55AM ET (12:55GMT), U.S. crude futures soared 6.68% to $48.25, while Brent oil jumped 6.70% to $50.49.
