Title: Gold prices edge higher in Asia as Yellen remarks aid sentiment
Date: 20160606
Content:
Investing.com - Gold held overnight gains in Asia on Tuesday as remarks from Fed Chair Janet Yellen appeared to rule out a rate hike this month and reiterated any action this summer is data dependent. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, Gold for August delivery edged up 0.04% to $1,247.95 a troy ounce. Silver futures for July delivery gained 0.14% to $16.470 a troy ounce, while copper futures for July delivery added 0.24% to $2.123 a pound. Overnight, gold futures inched up, as the dollar erased slight gains on Monday afternoon after Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen omitted any reference to the timing of the U.S. central bank's next interest rate hike in light of startlingly weak U.S. employment data last week. Speaking before an audience at the World Affairs Council in Philadelphia, Yellen cautioned economists not to place too much significance to one report, after the U.S. labor market expanded by only 38,000 in May, marking the slowest period for monthly growth since September, 2010. By comparison, Yellen noted that the economy added 2.7 million jobs in 2015 or an average of 230,000 a month. In May, economists expected to see gains of 158,000 on a seasonally-adjusted basis. Yellen also emphasized that average hourly earnings in the U.S. have increased 2.5% over the last 12 months, providing indications that wage growth may be on the verge of accelerating further. The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) has left the target range of its benchmark Federal Funds Rate unchanged at a range between 0.25 and 0.50% in each of its first three meetings this year. Last December, the FOMC abandoned a seven-year zero interest rate policy by raising interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade. "If incoming data are consistent with labor market conditions strengthening and inflation making progress toward our 2 percent objective as I expect, further gradual increases in the Federal Funds Rate are likely to be appropriate," Yellen said. Investors who are bullish on gold are in favor of a gradual tightening of monetary policy by the Fed throughout the current cycle. Gold, which is not attached to interest rates, struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. Yellen also devoted a significant portion of her speech addressing broad areas of uncertainty within the global economy at large. Though Yellen noted that foreign headwinds have faded as the yuan has stabilized and Chinese outflows have abated in recent months, she said a potential Brexit by the U.K. from the European Union could bring "significant repercussions," to the economy. Yellen also reiterated that she expects inflation to move toward the Fed's long-term 2% goal in one to two years, as long as oil prices avoid further declines and the dollar avoids unforeseen shocks. 
