Title: NYMEX crude nearly steady in Asia despite API showing sharp draw
Date: 20160907
Content:
Investing.com - Crude prices were nearly flat in early Asia on Thursday despite a major draw in U.S. stockpile estimates reported by an industry group. Crude oil for October delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange traded at $46.15 a barrel, down 0.02%. The American Petroleum Institute reported a massive draw of 12.1 million barrels, far surpassing estimates of a modest build. Gasoline stocks dropped 2.3 million barrels following a draw of 1.6 million seen last week, while distillates rose by 900,000 barrels. Official data on crude and refined product stockpiles from the Energy Information Administration will be released Thursday. Overnight, oil prices were slightly higher during North America's session on Wednesday, as market players shifted their focus to weekly data from the U.S. on stockpiles of crude and refined products. On the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for November delivery tacked on 16 cents, or 0.34%, to trade at $47.42 a barrel. Oil traders continued to weigh prospects that major oil producing nations will freeze output to support the market when they meet later this month. The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, led by Saudi Arabia and other big Middle East crude exporters, will meet non-OPEC producers led by Russia at informal talks in Algeria between September 26 and 28. Brent spiked sharply on Monday after Saudi Arabia and Russia pledged to work together to support the market. But prices have since fallen back as the agreement stopped short of delivering imminent action to tackle a supply glut. Iranian Oil Minister Bijan Zanganeh met OPEC Secretary-General Mohammed Barkindo in Tehran on Tuesday and said he would support any measure to stabilize crude prices at around $50-60 per barrel. Despite the supportive remarks, chances that the upcoming meeting would yield any action to reduce the global glut appeared minimal, according to market experts. Instead, most believe that oil producers will continue to monitor the market and possibly postpone freeze talks to the official OPEC meeting in Vienna on November 30. An attempt to jointly freeze production levels earlier this year failed after Saudi Arabia backed out over Iran's refusal to take part of the initiative, underscoring the difficulty for political rivals to forge consensus. 
