Title: Gold gains slightly in Asia as investors eye global monetary easing
Date: 20160711
Content:
Investing.com - Gold edged slightly higher in Asian trade on Tuesday with the market finely poised after sharp gains this year with expectations of easier global monetary policies largely priced in. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, Gold for August delivery edged up 0.03% to $1,357.05 a troy ounce. Silver futures for August delivery rose 0.27% to $20.358 a pound, while copper futures gained 0.05% to $2.147 a pound. Overnight, gold closed virtually flat on Monday in choppy trade, as Shinzo Abe's landslide victory in Japan and the likelihood of Theresa May's appointment as David Cameron's replacement in the U.K. helped reduce global political uncertainty, offsetting the rising probability of further easing measures by top central banks worldwide. In Japan, equities surged almost 4% while the yen weakened sharply after Abe promised to move ahead with a raft of major constitutional reforms following his party's landslide victory in upper-house elections over the weekend. As part of his plans, the Japanese prime minister unveiled a ¥10 Trillion ($98 billion) stimulus measure aimed at jumpstarting the economy, including a proposal to fast-track construction on a series of high-speed trains throughout the nation. While the Nikkei 225 soared 601.84 or 3.98% to 15,708.82, the Yen fell considerably against the U.S. Dollar on prospects that Abe's Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) and their junior colleagues in the house could approve the fiscal stimulus. In U.S. afternoon trading, USD/JPY jumped 2.10 or 2.09% to 102.69, remaining on pace for its strongest one-day move since late-April. Elsewhere, investors kept a close eye on political developments in the U.K. after Andrea Leadsom pulled out of the closely-watched Prime Minister campaign, leaving May as the lone candidate to succeed Cameron. May's appointment on Wednesday could augment Britain's chances of gaining access to the European Union's single market, strengthening the Pound and soothing investor's concerns throughout the euro area. The S&P 500 Composite index soared to an intraday high of 2,143.16 in broad risk-on trade, jumping to its highest intra-session level on record. Investors brace for the start of the second quarter earnings period on Monday when  Alcoa  (NYSE:NYSE:AA) releases its quarterly results after the close of trading. The S&P last set an intra-day record on May 20, 2015 when it hit session highs of 2,134.72. Gold is viewed as a hedge for investors in periods of heightened volatility on global equity markets. Market players also reacted to improved odds for a 2016 rate hike from the Federal Reserve in the wake of Friday's robust U.S. employment report. On Monday, the CME Group's (NASDAQ:NASDAQ:CME) Fed Watch tool increased the probability of a December rate hike to 30.1%, up from 22.5% at the end of Friday's session. Before the release, the odds of a single rate hike by the Fed in 2016 stood at 12%. In addition, Kansas City Fed president Esther George, a noted hawk, told a management conference in Missouri that the rebound in the labor market last month could compel her to resume a push for advocating an imminent rate hike. Investors who are bullish on gold are in favor of a gradual tightening of monetary policy by the Fed. Gold, which is not attached to interest rates, struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments.  
