Title: Gold prices dip in Asia as investors await U.S. nonfarm payrolls
Date: 20160707
Content:
Investing.com - Gold slipped in Asia on Friday as the market awaited direction from U.S. nonfarm payrolls data. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, Gold for August delivery traded down 0.18% to $1.359.60 a troy ounce/ Silver futures for August delivery fell 0.24% to $19.790 a troy ounce, while copper futures for September delivery gained 0.09% to $2.124 a pound. Overnight, gold fell slightly on Thursday, taking a brief pause from its scorching, post-Brexit winning streak, as a favorable payroll indicator sent a strong harbinger for a critical U.S. jobs report at week's end. It came one session after Gold surged to a fresh 28-month high amid continuing Brexit-related concerns, after several U.K. property funds halted redemptions due to "exceptional liquidity pressures." Since polls closed in the historic referendum two weeks ago, the safe-haven asset has surged more than 7%. More broadly, Gold has jumped by nearly 30% year-to-date as investors have engaged in a flight to safety from high-risk equities, due primarily to signs of a global economic slowdown and a delayed interest rate hike from the Federal Reserve. On Thursday morning, ADP said in its monthly employment report that nonfarm payrolls rose by 172,000 in June, above May's revised total of 168,000 and considerably higher than consensus estimates of 150,000. Last month's revised total from the payroll services firm contrasts sharply from May's government report, which showed an increase of 38,000, the lowest monthly increase in nearly six years. Analysts expect that the report from the U.S. Department of Labor will show monthly job gains of 180,000, its highest total in three months. Economists expect a rebound following the return of approximately 35,000 Verizon workers, which were on strike in June during a labor dispute. While Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen has emphasized the importance of not placing an undue amount of weight on a single report, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) characterized the slowing labor market as a factor for holding interest rates steady at its monetary policy meeting last month. Prior to the disappointing report, Yellen said at a speech at Harvard University in late-May that it could be appropriate to raise interest rates in the coming months. Since then, the FOMC lowered its long-term rate outlook while markets have taken a 2016 rate hike off the table entirely. Investors who are bullish on Gold are in favor of a gradual tightening of monetary policy by the Fed. Gold, which is not attached to interest rates, struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. Elsewhere, International Monetary Fund managing director Christine Lagarde said in an interview with the Financial Times that the U.K. could soften the effects of the Brexit decision by agreeing to a deal that would grant it access to the European Union's single market, while complying with the bloc's laws on freedom of movement. A swift resolution could reduce Britain's GDP growth by only 1.5% through 2019, Lagarde said. Mohamed El-Erian, chief economic advisor at Allianz (DE:DE:ALVG), also cautioned on Thursday that the British Pound could hit parity with the U.S. dollar if leaders in the U.K. fail to develop an alternative plan that provides businesses nationwide with a free trade agreement with members of the bloc. Since voters in the U.K. resoundingly approved a referendum to leave the EU late last month, investors have piled into safe-haven assets such as gold, government bonds and the Japanese yen while engaging in broad risk-off trade. 
