Title: Crude moves lower ahead of API report, as Brexit fears intensify
Date: 20160614
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude futures pared sharp losses on Tuesday, ahead of the release of the American Petroleum Institute's weekly inventory report, as rising Brexit fears continued to spook global energy markets. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for July delivery traded between $48.02 and $48.69 a barrel before closing at $48.49, down 0.39 or 0.82% on the session. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for August delivery wavered between $49.51 and $50.08 a barrel, before settling at $49.78, down 0.57 or 1.13% on the day. North Brent Sea futures closed below $50 for the first time in seven sessions. Although U.S. crude futures have fallen off June highs over the last two sessions, they are still up more than 80% from their level on February 11 when they plunged to 13-year lows at $26.05 a barrel. Energy traders continued to closely monitor poll results in the U.K., which increasingly show a British public shifting their support to the "Leave," campaign, ahead of next week's controversial Brexit referendum. An online poll from TNS said a Leave vote widened its lead over a vote to "Stay" by a 47-40 margin, as Rupert Murdoch's Sun newspaper backed a campaign to depart from the European Union. Another survey, a YouGov poll for The Times, found that the "Leave" vote held a 46-39% lead, while 11% remained undecided. Consequently, volatility in the pound sterling hit its highest level in two decades on Tuesday, providing significant downward pressure on oil. A "Leave" vote has sparked fears of contagion throughout the euro zone, which could trigger a recession and slow demand for crude throughout the continent. A number of major oil companies have also issued stark warnings of the ramifications that could ensue from a U.K. departure from the EU. A "Leave" vote could result in the potential loss of free travel arrangements by UK workers employed by euro area oil companies, while increasing trade barriers between the UK and major nations in the EU. As a result, a host of UK oil workers could require non-EU citizenship to work abroad, a development which could increase operating costs for top energy companies. It appears to be one factor on why Shell (LON:RDSa) CEO Ben Van Bearden views a potential Brexit as having a negative impact on his company's bottom line. Investors also await the release of the American Petroleum Institute's weekly crude stockpile report on Tuesday evening for further indications of the supply-demand imbalance in domestic energy markets. Separately, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) is expected to report a draw on Wednesday of 2.3 million barrels for the week ending on June 10. Earlier, the Paris-based International Energy Association increased its forecasts for global demand growth in 2016 slightly by 0.1 to 1.3 million barrels per day. Currently, analysts estimate that global supply is outpacing demand by more than 1 million bpd. Market players also traded cautiously ahead of the Federal Reserve's latest interest rate decision on Wednesday afternoon. While the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) is widely expected to leave its benchmark interest rate unchanged, Fed chair Janet Yellen could provide key clues on whether the U.S. central bank will raise rates before the end of the fall. Any rate hikes by the Fed this year are viewed as bullish for the dollar, as foreign investors pile into the greenback in order to capitalize on higher yields. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, surged more than 0.60% to an intraday high of 95.14. The index is still down by more than 5% since early-December. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Despite the recent rally, crude prices are still down more than 50% from their peak of $115 a barrel two years ago.
