Title: Hess names former Deloitte CEO James Quigley as Chairman of Board
Date: 20160302
Content:
Investing.com -- Hess Corporation (NYSE:HES) announced on Wednesday that James Quigley is succeeding Board of Directors chairman Mark Williams, who is retiring effectively due to health reasons. Williams, 64, has served as the Non-Executive Chairman at Hess since May, 2013, while also serving as its Executive Vice President of Supply and Distribution in oil products at Shell (LON:RDSa)'s upstream business. Williams, who holds a PhD in physics from Stanford University, has held a variety of upstream and downstream positions at Royal Dutch Shell since joining the company in 1979. “It has been a privilege and pleasure to work with Mark, as we have taken important steps together to preserve our financial strength and build our portfolio of high quality assets, especially in the current oil price environment," the Hess Board of Directors said in a statement. "Today, the company is well positioned to achieve strong growth and financial performance when oil prices recover. On behalf of the entire Board, we extend our sincere gratitude to Mark for his service and wish him and his family well.” Quigley, the former CEO at Deloitte & Touche, has been an independent director at Hess since May, 2013 and a director at WF since October of the same year. Quigley led Deloitte, one of the world's largest accounting and consulting firms for five years through June, 2011, before becoming a trustee of the International Financial Reporting Standards Foundation (IFRS) a year later. The foundation is the oversight body of the International Accounting Standards Board. Separately, Hess declared a regular quarterly dividend of 0.25 per share payable to common stock holders of the corporation on March 31. The dividend will be payable to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 17. Hess is in the midst of a significant transition, which began in March, 2013, after the company announced that it would divest its retail operations to place a greater focus on exploration. In May, 2014, the company sold roughly 1,250 convenience stores, transport operations and shipper history to Speedway for $2.87 billion. Shares in Hess were down fractionally in after-hours trading, after closing the regular session at 46.92, up 2.61 or 5.89%.
