Title: NYMEX crude posts gains in Asia ahead of U.S. rig count data
Date: 20160421
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices rose in Asia on Friday with U.S. rig count data from Baker Hughes later in the day expected to set the near-term tone. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for June delivery traded up 0.76% to $43.51 a barrel. Overnight, crude futures retreated from 2016 yearly-highs on Thursday, as the dollar rallied late in the session following dovish comments from European Central Bank president Mario Draghi on the possibility of future interest rate cuts before the end of the year. It came one day after U.S. crude futures surged nearly 7% to hit their highest level since the early portions of November. Despite the slight losses on Thursday, WTI crude has still soared by more than 50% since touching down to 13-year lows on February 11 at $26.05 a barrel. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude for June delivery wavered between $44.46 and $46.18 a barrel, before closing at $44.61, down $1.19 or 2.60% on the session. Crude futures initially extended gains from Wednesday's surge in overnight, Asian trading after the influential, Paris-based International Energy Agency (IEA) said it anticipates that oil markets will rebalance by this year, or by the end of next year at the latest. Addressing reporters following a meeting with Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe, IEA executive director Faith Birol said he expects a decline of nearly 700,000 barrels per day in Non-OPEC production, a level which would amount to the sharpest decline in supply over the last quarter-century. Simultaneously, the IEA anticipates that accelerated demand growth in nations such as India and China will help narrow a wide supply-demand imbalance that currently exceeds 1 million barrels per day. “When we look at all the fundamentals – demand, supply and stocks – I have all the reasons to believe that in the absence of a major economic downturn we are going to see balance in the markets latest by 2017," Birol said. One session earlier, oil prices rose considerably after the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) reported a lower than expected stockpile build last week. At the same time, U.S. production fell by 24,000 bpd to 8.953 million barrels per day, falling to a fresh 18-month low. It marked the 12th time domestic crude output has decreased in the last 13 weeks. Birol reiterated that oil prices at $45 a barrel are still "far lower," than levels U.S. shale producers require to generate a reasonable profit. Crude prices retreated in U.S. afternoon trading after Draghi suggested that the ECB could maintain low interest rates for an extended period, even beyond the expiration of its comprehensive Quantitative Easing program in March, 2017. The ECB also held its deposit rate steady at Minus-0.4% on Thursday and left its marginal lending facility rate unchanged at 0.25%. "We continue to expect them (interest rates) to remain at present, or lower, levels for an extended period of time and well past the horizon of asset purchases," Draghi said.  
