Title: Norway shipping company fined $2.5 million for illegally discharging oil
Date: 20160408
Content:
Investing.com -- DSD Shipping, a Norway shipping company, was ordered to pay a fine of $2.5 million on Friday, resulting from its convictions in November for illegally discharging oil into the Gulf of Mexico. A U.S. federal judge in the Southern District of Alabama placed DSD Shipping on three years of probation and required the company to implement a comprehensive environmental compliance plan to meet federal and international environmental guidelines in the future. In November, DSD was convicted of numerous violations of the Act to Prevent Pollutions from Ships (APPS), including tampering with witnesses and obstruction of justice. In addition, three senior engineering officials from the company were given prison sentences ranging from two to six months stemming from convictions for discharging fuel oil sludge directly into the ocean. Evidence presented at last fall's trial demonstrated that the company's 56,000 ton oil tanker operated in the area without an operable oily-water separator, the U.S. Department of Justice said in a statement. Both federal and international regulations require the vessels to operate with the devices to prevent the discharge of oil-contaminated waste water. A January, 2010, internal corporate memo from the company presented at the two-week trial showed that the malfunctioning separator could not properly filter oil-contaminated waste water. Instead of repairing the device, evidence from the trial demonstrated that the company illegally operated the vessel for nearly five years before the damaged separator was identified in an inspection by the U.S. Coast Guard in November, 2014. During the period, the company allegedly discharged 20,000 gallons of oil contaminated waste water into the ocean. As part of the sentence, DSD Shipping was ordered to pay $500,000 to the Dauphin Island Sea Lab Foundation, to help fund marine research in the area. "We will continue to aggressively prosecute and hold accountable those shipping companies who flout the laws that protect our oceans and coastal waterways from harmful vessel pollution and waste,” said U.S. Assistant Attorney General John Cruden said in a statement. “It is fitting that a portion of this penalty will go towards repairing and protecting the Gulf coastal environment that is threatened by these illegal discharges. This egregious abuse of the seas we share as a nation and an international community must stop." Additionally, evidence presented at the trial showed that the DSD engineers maintained fictitious books, which omitted records of the illegal discharge of oil and garbage. The records also falsely claimed that the prevention equipment was operational, when prosecutors argued that it was not. Bo Gao, the vessel's chief engineer and Xiaobing Chen, another engineer on the tanker were given sentences of six months in prison. Xin Zhong, a third engineer, was sentenced to two months in prison. 
