Title: Gold gains in Asia as China CPI weaker than expected
Date: 20160410
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices rose in Asia on Monday as consumer prices eased in China last month and investors eyed easier monetary policy. Gold for June delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange rose 0.67% to $1,252.10 a troy ounce. Silver futures for May delivery gained 0.36% to $15.440 a troy ounce, while copper futures on the Comex for May delivery increased 0.53% to $2.098 a pound. Consumer prices for March in China fell 0.4%, more than the expected 0.3% decline month-on-month and up 2.3% year-on-year, less than the 2.5% gain seen, according to official data released on Monday. Earlier, in Japan, core machinery orders dropped 0.7% for February, less than the 2.7% fall seen year-on-year. In Australia, home loans for February rose 1.5%, less than the 2.0% gain seen. In the week ahead, market players will be turning their attention to key economic data out of China, with Friday’s first quarter GDP report in the spotlight. The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for nearly 45% of world consumption. Last week, gold prices inched higher on Friday to settle at a more than one-week peak as a broadly weaker U.S. dollar due to skepticism over the Federal Reserve's ability to raise interest rates as much as it would like this year boosted the yellow metal. Dollar weakness usually benefits gold, as it boosts the metal's appeal as an alternative asset and makes dollar-priced commodities cheaper for holders of other currencies.For the week, gold prices rose $20.30, or 1.63%, the second straight weekly gain, amid indications the Fed will take a slow and cautious approach to raising interest rates this year. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen, in a conversation with former Fed chairmen on Thursday, said the U.S. economy is on a solid course and still on track to warrant further interest rate hikes. Meanwhile, on Friday, New York Fed President William Dudley warned that the central bank must approach further rate hikes cautiously and gradually because of lingering external risks to the U.S. economy. Minutes from the Fed's March policy meeting released Wednesday signaled that the central bank is unlikely to raise interest rates before June due to concerns over global economic growth. A gradual path to higher rates is seen as less of a threat to gold prices than a swift series of increases. Prices of the yellow metal are up nearly 14% so far this year as expectations faded that the Fed would move to normalize interest rates due to fears over a China-led global economic slowdown. Gold is sensitive to moves in U.S. rates, as a rise would lift the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding assets such as bullion. Market players will be paying attention to a handful of FOMC member speeches in the week ahead to further judge the balance of opinion among policymakers on the prospect of further rate hikes. U.S. data on retail sales and consumer price inflation will also be in focus as investors look for further indications on the strength of the economy.  
