Title: Brent oil futures turn higher on hopes for OPEC production deal
Date: 20160223
Content:
Investing.com - Oil prices trimmed losses in early North America trade on Tuesday, with Brent futures turning green as investors continued to hope that major oil producers will agree on a deal to freeze crude output. On the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for April delivery inched up 12 cents, or 0.35%, to trade at $34.81 a barrel by 11:50GMT, or 6:50AM ET, after being down by as much as 2.7%. A day earlier, London-traded Brent futures rallied $1.68, or 5.09%. Prices recovered after Saudi Arabia’s Oil Ministry said it planned to discuss OPEC and non-OPEC co-operation with Nigeria, again raising the possibility of a coordinated cut in crude output. Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi is scheduled to speak at the CERAWeek energy conference in Houston at approximately 14:35GMT, or 9:35AM ET on Tuesday. OPEC Secretary-General Abdullah El-Badri said earlier that oil producers could "take other steps" to tackle the oil glut if a proposed supply freeze is successful. Top oil producers Russia and Saudi Arabia agreed to freeze oil production at January levels last week, provided other oil exporters joined in. But Iran stopped short of committing to the proposal, casting doubts over whether the freeze will happen. Elsewhere, crude oil for April delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange shed 14 cents, or 0.42%, to trade at $33.25 a barrel. On Monday, New York-traded oil futures jumped $1.64, or 5.17%, after the International Energy Agency said it expected U.S. shale production to fall this year and next. Market players looked ahead to fresh weekly information on U.S. stockpiles of crude and refined products to gauge the strength of demand in the world’s largest oil consumer. The American Petroleum Institute will release its inventories report later in the day, while Wednesday’s government report could show crude stockpiles rose by 3.2 million barrels in the week ended February 19. Oil futures are down nearly 70% since the summer of 2014. Global crude production is outpacing demand following a boom in U.S. shale oil and after a decision by OPEC last year not to cut production in order to defend market share. Meanwhile, Brent's premium to the West Texas Intermediate crude contract stood at $1.56 a barrel, compared to a gap of $1.30 by close of trade on Monday. 
