Title: Gold holds weaker in Asia as China industrial, retail figures disappoint
Date: 20160811
Content:
Investing.com - Gold held weaker in Asia on Friday as data out of China on industrial output and retail sales disappointed on demand expectations. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for December delivery fell 0.32% to $1,345.65 a troy ounce. Copper futures for September dipped 0.18% to $2.183 a pound, while silver futures eased 0.06% to $20.008 a troy ounce. China, the world's top copepr importer and second larget buyer of gold behind India, reported fixed-asset investment for Julyrose 8.1%, below a pace of 8.8% seen year-on-year and industrial production gained 6.0%, also below an expected at 6.1% year-on-year gain, while retail sales increased 10.2% under the expected up 10.5% year-on-year rise seen. Overnight, gold ticked down on Thursday, amid a relatively steady dollar, as cautious investors awaited the release of monthly retail and consumer data at week's end for greater clarity on the current strength of the U.S. economy. Earlier on Thursday, figures from the World Gold Council revealed that consumer demand for the yellow metal soared to 1,064 tons over the first half of 2016, touching all-time highs. Notably, investment, not jewelry, served as the main driver for demand for the second consecutive quarter, according to the Council. The trend is unprecedented. Investors also reacted to optimistic quarterly results from Macy’s Inc (NYSE:M) and Kohl’s Corporation (NYSE:KSS) on Thursday ahead of the release of monthly retail sales data by the U.S. Census Bureau. Shares in Macy's (NYSE:M) soared as much as 15%, after the major department store reported a lower than expected decline in same-store sales in the second quarter and outlined a plan to close 100 stores in a massive turnaround initiative. On Friday, the Census Bureau is expected to report an increase of 0.4% in retail sales last month, following a gain of 0.6% in June. Additionally, the University of Michigan could report a slight uptick in consumer sentiment in July in the wake of a sharp decline of 3.5 points a month earlier. In February, the National Retail Federation estimated that retail sales (excluding automobile, gas and restaurant purchases) will rise 3.1% for 2016. Over the last decade, the 10-year average came in at annual growth of 2.7%. The Federal Reserve continues to closely monitor incoming economic data, as it weighs a decision in September on the timing of its next interest rate hike. Last month, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) reiterated that it will tighten monetary policy gradually if the economy demonstrates improvement in the coming months. Any rate hikes by the Fed this year are viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. 
