Title: NYMEX crude gains sharply in Asia as investors eye key producer statemen
Date: 20160316
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices gained smartly in Asia on Thursday with investors noting more effort by key producers to cap output and as they digested a cautious outlook by the Fed and turning to weekly rig count data at the end of the week. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for April delivery WTI crude for April delivery rose 1.66% to $39.10 a barrel. Brent rose 0.84% to $40.67 a barrel. Overnight, U.S. crude futures surged more than 4%, erasing losses from the previous two sessions, as the dollar fell precipitously on Wednesday afternoon after the Federal Reserve unexpectedly lowered its interest rate forecast for the remainder of 2016. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude for May delivery wavered between $38.84 and $40.42 a barrel, before closing at $40.24, up 2.04 or 3.90% on the session. North Sea crude futures have also rallied sharply over the last month and a half after briefly dipping below $30 in mid-February. Brent futures also remain near three-month highs from last week when they traded above $41.40 a barrel. Crude extended earlier gains on Wednesday following the release of a relatively dovish monetary policy statement from the Federal Reverse. In a 9-1 vote, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) held the Federal Funds Rate at a target range between 0.25% and 0.50%, leaving its benchmark interest unchanged for the second consecutive month. More importantly, the FOMC lowered its forecasts for future rate increases by 50 basis points for each of the next two years, amid heightened global economic risks and modest inflationary gains. The decision sent the dollar tumbling more than 1% to fresh 1-month lows. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Crude prices have plummeted more than 50% since OPEC roiled global markets in November, 2014, with a strategic decision to maintain its production ceiling above 30 million barrels per day. The tactic triggered a prolonged battle with U.S. shale producers for market share, flooding global energy markets with excessive supply. The downturn in oil has also restrained long-term U.S. inflation, which has remained under the Fed's targeted objective of 2% for every month over the last three years. "We have seen marked decline in drilling activity, which has depressed investment spending and of course substantial layoffs in the energy sector. With respect to the impact of oil prices on inflation, the committee has looked at it…as a factor that should have a transitory influence," Fed chair Janet Yellen said on Wednesday. "If oil prices move up at the time they're moving it up, it raises inflation. But they don't need to move down to their previous level for that influence to disappear, they only need to stabilize at a higher level." "Similarly, oil prices have moved down a great deal over the last year," Yellen added. "We're not expecting them to move back to their previous level but to stabilize at some level." Separately, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said on Wednesday that U.S. commercial crude oil inventories increased by 1.3 million barrels for the week ending March 11, from the previous week's total. At 523.2 million barrels, U.S. crude oil inventories are at historically high levels for this time of year. Investors mostly expected to see a bullish supply report after the American Petroleum Institute reported a build of 1.5 million barrels on Tuesday evening. Crude prices initially rose by approximately 2% on Wednesday morning after Qatar energy minister Mohammed bin Saleh Al-Sada said OPEC and non-OPEC producers will meet in Doha on April 17 to discuss a deal aimed at capping output at levels from the start of the year. The meeting will take place roughly six weeks after Saudi Arabia, Russia and two other OPEC members agreed on a deal in principle to freeze production at their respective levels from January. Next month's meeting will be held with or without the presence of Iran, Al-Sada said, representing a shift in OPEC's stance on limiting production. Previously, the world's largest oil cartel indicated that any deal involved participation from Iran, which has been reluctant to cut output. 
