Title: Gold prices swing slightly higher in Asia after China CPI comes in lower
Date: 20160908
Content:
Investing.com - Gold edged up as it swung between small gains and losses Friday in Asia after consumer prices in China came in lower than expected, capping recent upbeat data in trade and manufacturing from the country that is the second largest importer of the yellow metal. In China CPI figures came in at a rise of 0.1% month-on-month for August, below the 0.3% gain seen, and at a 1.3% pace year-on-year, well under the 1.7% increase expected. PPI figures came in at a decline of 0.8% year-on-year, less than the 0.9% drop seen. Gold for December delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange rose 0.05% to $1,342.25 a troy ounce. Overnight, gold prices struggled for direction in North American trade on Thursday, as investors digested the latest U.S. data as well as comments from European Central Bank President Mario Draghi. The number of people who filed for unemployment assistance in the U.S. last week fell to a seven-week low, remaining in territory associated with a healthy labor market, official data showed on Thursday. The U.S. Department of Labor said the number of individuals filing for initial jobless benefits decreased by 4,000 to 259,000 last week. Analysts expected jobless claims to rise by 2,000 to 265,000 from the previous week’s total of 263,000. The data did little to alter market expectations for the next U.S. rate hike. According to Investing.com's Fed Rate Monitor Tool, investors are pricing in an 18% chance of a rate hike at the Fed's September 20-21 meeting. For December, odds stood at around 52%. Gold is sensitive to moves in U.S. rates. A gradual path to higher rates is seen as less of a threat to gold prices than a swift series of increases. Meanwhile, the ECB said it was maintaining its benchmark interest rate at a record-low 0.0%, in line with market expectations. The central bank also held its deposit facility rate unchanged at -0.4% and left its marginal lending at 0.25%. The central bank expects rates to remain at present level or lower for an "extended period". Additionally, the ECB kept the size of its monthly quantitative easing program at approximately €80 billion. The central bank reiterated that it is prepared to expand its monthly asset-purchase program beyond March 2017, if needed. 
