Title: Gold prices hold above $1,200 as investors eye Fed minutes
Date: 20160217
Content:
Investing.com - Gold futures were little changed above the $1,200-level in choppy action in North America trade on Wednesday, as investors looked ahead to minutes of the Federal Reserve’s January policy meeting for fresh indications on whether the U.S. central bank will raise interest rates at all this year. Gold for April delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange dipped 80 cents, or 0.07%, to trade at $1,207.40 by 13:45GMT, or 8:45AM ET. Investors will be focusing on minutes of the Federal Reserve’s January policy meeting due on Wednesday at 19:00GMT, or 2:00PM ET. The Fed left interest rates unchanged following its meeting on January 27 and said it was "closely monitoring" global economic and financial developments. Fed Chair Janet Yellen said last week that financial conditions have become less supportive to growth as foreign developments pose risks to the economic outlook, but also maintained that moderate growth at home would justify "gradual adjustments" to the Fed's monetary policy stance. On the data front, the U.S. Commerce Department said the cost of producing goods and services inched up 0.1% in January, while core prices, which strip out the more volatile categories like food and energy, rose 0.2%. A separate report showed that the number of housing starts issued in the U.S. fell unexpectedly in January, while building permits also declined, dampening optimism over the health of the U.S. housing sector. On Tuesday, gold tumbled $31.20, or 2.52%, as safe-haven buying in the precious metal dried up amid a recovery in global equity markets. Prices of the yellow metal soared to a one-year high of $1,263.90 last Thursday, boosted by a flight to safety. Gold has been well-supported in recent weeks amid indications global economic and financial headwinds could make it tough for the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates as much as it would like this year. Market participants have all but priced out any rate hikes this year, while the Fed is anticipating four more. A gradual path to higher rates is seen as less of a threat to gold prices than a swift series of increases. Also on the Comex, silver futures for March delivery tacked on 1.1 cents, or 0.11%, to trade at $15.35 a troy ounce during morning hours in New York. Elsewhere in metals trading, copper futures inched higher amid mounting expectations for further stimulus measures from central banks in Europe and Asia. 
