Title: NYMEX, Brent boosted as China PMIs diverge, Caixin in expansion
Date: 20160731
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil held steady to stronger in Asia on Monday as closely-watched manufacturing data from the world's second largest importer diverged. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in September fell were nearly flat at $41.59 a barrel after earlier losses. On the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for October delivery rose 0.28% to $43.48 The Caixin manufacturing PMI came in at 50.6, well above a reading of 48.7 expected for July, which was up a tad from 48.6 the previous month. Earlier, in China, the semi-official manufacturing PMI published by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) and the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing for July rose to 49.9. just missing the expected exapnsion level of 50. The CFLP non-manufacturing PMI reached 53.9, with last month's level at 53.7. In the coming week, the U.S. reports nonfarm payrolls data andISM data on both manufacturing and service sector activity. As well, the weekly U.S. stockpile data on Tuesday and Wednesday will be watched for fresh supply-and-demand signals. Last week, oil futures ended Friday’s session slightly higher, rebounding from bear-market territory as investors went bargain-buying after prices fell to the lowest level in more than three months amid persistent concerns over a supply glut. Oilfield services provider Baker Hughes said late Friday that the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. last week increased by three to 374, the fifth straight weekly rise and the eighth increase in nine weeks. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, gasoline inventories increased by 452,000 barrels last week. Despite being in the midst of the peak summer-driving season in the U.S., gasoline stocks are well above the upper limit of the average range, according to the EIA. The report also showed that total crude oil inventories rose by a surprising 1.7 million barrels to 521.1 million barrels, which the EIA considered to be “historically high levels for this time of year”. 
