Title: Gold retreats from 3-month highs, amid soft U.S. economic data
Date: 20160128
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold futures inched down on Thursday amid a wave of soft U.S. economic data, as investors digested a mixed monetary policy statement from the Federal Reserve after the completion of its two-day January meeting a session earlier. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for February delivery traded in a broad range between $1,111.30 and $1,125.70 an ounce before settling at $1,115.40, down 0.30 or 0.03% on the session. With the losses, gold snapped a three-day losing streak that saw the precious metal surge more than $15 an ounce to fresh three-month highs. As January nears its end, gold is on pace to end the first month of the year up by approximately 5%. Gold likely gained support at $1,046.20, the low from December 3 and was met with resistance at $1,138.70, the high from Nov. 2. On Thursday, metal traders around the world continued to react to a decision by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) to leave short-term interest rates unchanged. Citing weakness in the global economy and sluggish inflation, the FOMC voted unanimously on Wednesday afternoon to hold its benchmark Federal Funds Rate at its current range between 0.25 and 0.50%. The decision came just over a month after the Fed began its first tightening cycle in nearly a decade with its first rate hike in seven years. A wide sampling of analysts are largely split on the direction the Fed will head in with its next move, after reviewing a January statement rife with ambiguity. Analysts appeared divided on whether the statement indicates that the Fed could be leaning toward a subsequent rate hike in March or if the U.S. central bank could delay further tightening measures beyond the first quarter. The decision, according to the Fed's statement, will hinge on evolving labor market conditions, inflation expectations and developments in the global financial markets. Notably, the FOMC removed a phrase that it is "reasonably confident" inflation will move toward its 2% objective from the statement. "In light of the current shortfall of inflation from 2 percent, the Committee will carefully monitor actual and expected progress toward its inflation goal," the FOMC said in the statement. "The Committee expects that economic conditions will evolve in a manner that will warrant only gradual increases in the federal funds rate." Any rate hikes this year are viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, fell broadly on Thursday amid a batch of disappointing economic data. Last month, new durable goods orders  plunged 5.1%, falling sharply below consensus estimates of a 0.2% gain. Pending home sales for December were also soft, inching up 0.1 to 106.8, following a downwardly revised 1.1% decline a month earlier. The index, which fell more than 0.45% to an intraday low of 98.53, is on pace for its fifth straight losing session. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Silver for March delivery lost 0.204 or 1.41% to 14.265 an ounce. Copper for March delivery dropped 0.014 or 0.67% to 2.051 a pound.
