Title: NYMEX crude down in Asia as investors note dim output freeze prospects
Date: 20160414
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices fell in Asia on Thursday as investors reacted to reports that efforts to freeze production will not be easily agreed. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for May delivery eased 1.25% to $41.24 a barrel. Brent eased 1.38% to $43.58 a barrel. Overnight, crude futures retreated from 2016-yearly highs before paring considerable losses on a volatile day of trading, as Saudi Arabia's oil minister brushed off the potential for extensive output cuts among a host of major producers and investors reacted to a stronger than expected U.S. inventory build last week. Saudi Arabia energy minister Ali al-Naimi downplayed prospects of coordinated production cuts between Russia, Venezuela, Qatar and the Saudi kingdom at a highly-anticipated meeting in Doha on Sunday. It came one day after crude prices jumped more than 3%, after diplomatic sources told Russian news agency Interfax that Saudi Arabia and Russia had formed a consensus on the framework of a deal to cap output near their current levels. Asked on Wednesday on the possibility that his nation could reduce production at Sunday's meeting, Al-Naimi brusquely told reporters from the Al-Hayat newspaper to "forget about this topic." Russia counterpart Alexander Novak also refuted the Interfax report on Wednesday disclosing in a briefing that any output freeze will be "loosely framed," with few constraints on the participating countries, according to Reuters. Also on Wednesday, OPEC cut its forecasts for global oil demand growth in 2016 warning of potential reductions among customers in China and Latin America. The downward revisions point to signs of a widening gulf in the global supply-demand imbalance, which is already above an estimated 1 million barrels per day. OPEC, the world's largest oil cartel, now anticipates annual world demand growth of 1.20 million bpd this year, a reduction of 50,000 bpd from previous estimates. At the same time, OPEC said in its latest report that it pumped 32.25 million bpd in March as Saudi Arabia held production steady around 10.2 million bpd. The latest figures provide some optimism that the Saudi kingdom is intent on capping output at this weekend's meeting in order to prop up flagging oil prices. Over the last 16 months, oil prices have tumbled more than 40% since OPEC rattled global energy markets with a strategic decision to maintain its production ceiling above 30 million bpd in an apparent effort to increase its market share.  
