Title: Crude falls sharply, as oversupply concerns outweigh geopolitical risks
Date: 20160105
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude futures fell sharply on Tuesday ahead of the release of the American Petroleum Institute's weekly inventory report, as investors weighed the continued downside risks of oversupply with escalating geopolitical tensions in the Middle East. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for February delivery traded in a broad range between $35.86 and $37.09 a barrel, before settling at $35.97, down 0.79 or 2.18% on the session. It came one day after U.S. crude futures spiked by more than 4% before closing negative on a volatile session of trading. At one point on Monday, WTI crude surged to an intraday high of $38.39, its highest level since December 9. Over the last month, domestic crude futures are down more than 12% since OPEC rattled global markets by leaving its output quota unchanged at a closely-watched meeting. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for February delivery wavered between $36.26 and $37.58 a barrel, before closing at $36.44, down 0.81 or 2.15% on the trading day. North Sea brent futures reached near-three week highs on Monday, before sliding back in U.S. afternoon trading.  Meanwhile, brent traded at a premium of 0.47 over WTI at Tuesday's close, slightly lower than Monday's spread of 0.48 at the close of trading. Both international and U.S. domestic benchmarks of crude are coming off a dismal year when they each slumped by more than 30%, amid record-high output among the world's top producers. U.S. crude stockpiles remain near their highest level in eight decades after a build of 2.6 million barrels for the week ending on December 25, pushed inventories to 487.4 million. Last week, inventories at the Cushing Oil Hub, the main delivery point for Nymex oil, reportedly came within 10 million barrels of full storage capacity, providing fresh downside concerns for crude prices. Following the American Petroleum Institute's release on Tuesday evening, Wednesday's government report is expected to show that crude inventories fell by 0.5 million for the week ending on January 1. Crude prices have fallen sharply over the last 14 months after OPEC's shocking decision to leave its production ceiling at 30 million barrels per day in November, 2014. The strategic decision triggered a prolonged battle for market share between Saudi Arabia and the U.S. shale producers, flooding global markets with excessive supply. Energy traders continued to monitor activities in the Persian Gulf in the wake of the execution of kingdom's execution of Shiite cleric Sheikh Nimr al-Nimr and 46 others by Saudi Arabia over the weekend. On Tuesday, Iran president Hassan Rouhani said that the Saudi kingdom cannot "cover its crimes of beheading a religious leader in its country," by severing diplomatic ties. It came one day after a trio of Saudi allies – Bahrain, Sudan and the UAE – joined the kingdom in cutting commercial ties with Iran. The escalation of sectarian conflict in the region exacerbates fears that Iran could shut down the Strait of Hormuz, the world's primary chokepoint of oil. Approximately 17 million barrels of oil, representing 30% of all maritime-traded petroleum in the world, flows through the strait each day into the Gulf of Oman, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA). Along with oil from Iran and Iraq, crude from Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Qatar passes through the strait en route to Asia. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, rose by more than 0.65% to an intraday high of 99.53. The index is on pace for its sixth straight winning session. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates.
