Title: NYMEX, Brent down in Asia after bearish API estimates
Date: 20160510
Content:
Investing.com - Crude prices fell in Asia on Wednesday after a bearish industry report on U.S, stockpiles, particularly a smaller than expected build in gasoline supplies ahead of the summer driving season. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for June delivery eased 0.45% to $44.46 a barrel. Brent crude fell 0.40% to $45.34 a barrel. The American Petroleum Institute said crude oil stock rose 3.450 million barrels last week, well above the 300,000 build seen. Distillates stocks dropped 1.360 million barrels, compared with a fall of 1.3 million barrels seen, while gasoline stock rose 217,000 barrels, below the 800,000 barrel gain seen. Crude stockpiles in the U.S. are at their highest levels in more than 80 years and are perilously close to reaching full storage capacity. Separately, Wednesday's government report from the U.S. Energy Department's Energy Information Administration (EIA) is expected to show a small build in crude inventories, despite slight draws in gasoline and distillate fuel on the week. Overnight, crude futures rose sharply, amid heavy short covering, one day after suffering one of its worst single-day sessions on the calendar year, as investors continued to react to devastating wildfires in Canada and widespread changes in the leadership structure of Saudi Arabia's leading state-run oil company. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for July delivery wavered between $43.33 and 45.60 a barrel, before closing at $45.55, up 1.91 or 4.38% on the session. North Sea Brent futures recovered on Tuesday after slumping nearly 6% one day earlier in one of its worst trading days over the last two months. Energy traders continued to monitor the catastrophic fires in Canada, where estimates of the number of barrels being forced offline from the firestorms continued to rise. On Tuesday, Energy Aspects, a Canadian consulting firm, estimated that the wildfires in Alberta were responsible for bringing 1.6 million barrels per day of oil offline, up from estimates of 1 million bpd a day earlier. As oil company scramble to set a timetable for getting their production sites up and running, many have been forced to delay the timing of their workers' return to the area. In Saudi Arabia, meanwhile, state-run company Aramco outlined plans to ramp up production in response to expectations of soaring demand. It came one day after the Saudi kingdom completed a major shakeup in energy circles by replacing longtime energy minister Ali al-Naimi with Khalid al-Falih, the chairman of Aramco. In addition, Aramco announced that it will increase output at the Shaybah Oil Field in the Rub Al-Khali desert by 33% over the next few weeks, bolstering total production to 1 million bpd in the Southeastern Saudi Arabian field. "We’re seeing a global increase in demand," said Amin Nasser, CEO of Aramco. "We are looking at the current market status that, even though challenging, is an excellent opportunity for growth." Although U.S. crude futures have rallied considerably since touching 13-year lows in mid-February at $26.05 a barrel, they are still down by approximately 40% since November, 2014, when OPEC rattled global markets by abandoning a long-term strategy of favoring sharp price gains over market share. "During the first three months of 2016, crude oil prices were relatively more volatile than in recent history. This elevated volatility occurred when overall oil prices were low, and volatility was driven by high uncertainty related to supply, demand, and inventories. Crude oil price volatility has declined since its peak in March. Prices have risen as concerns about future economic growth have abated and as inventory growth has slowed since the start of the year," the EIA said in a statement on Tuesday. 
