Title: Gold prices down slightly in Asia with Fed rate path the focus
Date: 20160128
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices drifted lower in Asia on Friday with the views on the trajectory of U.S. interest rates still a question mark for the market. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for February delivery fell 0.08% to $1,14.70 a troy ounce. Silver for March delivery rose 0.09% to $14.255 a troy ounce, while copper for March delivery dropped 0.13% to 2.050 a pound. Gold futures inched down on Thursday amid a wave of soft U.S. economic data, as investors digested a mixed monetary policy statement from the Federal Reserve after the completion of its two-day January meeting a session earlier. On Thursday, metal traders around the world continued to react to a decision by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) to leave short-term interest rates unchanged. Citing weakness in the global economy and sluggish inflation, the FOMC voted unanimously on Wednesday afternoon to hold its benchmark Federal Funds Rate at its current range between 0.25 and 0.50%. The decision came just over a month after the Fed began its first tightening cycle in nearly a decade with its first rate hike in seven years. A wide sampling of analysts are largely split on the direction the Fed will head in with its next move, after reviewing a January statement rife with ambiguity. Analysts appeared divided on whether the statement indicates that the Fed could be leaning toward a subsequent rate hike in March or if the U.S. central bank could delay further tightening measures beyond the first quarter. The decision, according to the Fed's statement, will hinge on evolving labor market conditions, inflation expectations and developments in the global financial markets. Notably, the FOMC removed a phrase that it is "reasonably confident" inflation will move toward its 2% objective from the statement. "In light of the current shortfall of inflation from 2 percent, the Committee will carefully monitor actual and expected progress toward its inflation goal," the FOMC said in the statement. "The Committee expects that economic conditions will evolve in a manner that will warrant only gradual increases in the federal funds rate." Any rate hikes this year are viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high yield bearing assets in rising rate environments.  
