Title: NYMEX crude drops in Asia as output cut squabbles eyed, API ahead
Date: 20160315
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices reversed course and fell in Asia on Tuesday ahead of industry estimates of U.S. stockpiles and continued back-and-forth over prospects for an output freeze by key producers. Ahead, the American Petroleum Institute will detail estimates of crude oil and refined product stockpiles as of last week. On Wednesday, more closely-watched figures from the U.S. Department of Energy are due. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for April delivery eased 0.73% to $36.91 a barrel. Brent crude dropped 0.86% to $39.19 a barrel. Overnight, crude prices slid from three-month highs on Monday, after Russia lent support to Iran's refusal to align with other major producers in a joint effort to cap output, placing a potential OPEC-Non OPEC production freeze in jeopardy. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude for May delivery wavered between $38.82 and $40.51 a barrel, before closing at $39.60, down 0.79 or 1.96% on the session. North Sea crude futures have also rallied sharply over the last month after briefly dipping below $30 a barrel in mid-February. Following a meeting with Iranian oil minister Bijan Zanganeh and energy minister Hamid Chitchian on Monday, Russia counterpart Alexander Novak confirmed the Persian Gulf nation's intentions to continue ramping up output before agreeing to any production freeze that could be supported by up to 10 major oil powers. The comments place a snag into developments related to the first potential OPEC-Non OPEC deal in 15 years. It came one day after Zanganeh emphatically told reporters that Iran does not intend to agree to any deal until its production reaches pre-sanction levels of approximately 4 million barrels per day. "I have already announced my view regarding the oil freeze and I'm saying now that as long as we have not reached four million barrels per day in production, they should leave us alone,” Zanganeh said on Sunday. Separately, Bloomberg reported that a highly-anticipated meeting between Russia, Saudi Arabia and other top oil producers aimed at stabilizing oil prices could now be delayed until next month. Previously, the meeting was scheduled to be held on March 20 in Russia. The meeting now may take place in Doha or a city in Russia, according to Bloomberg. Elsewhere, investors continued to digest a bullish supply report from last week when Baker Hughes said the total number of U.S. oil rigs dropped by nine to 480 for the week ending on March 4, falling to the lowest level on record. Previously, the lowest total on record came on April 23, 1999 when the rig count total dipped to 488. In addition, the total of active U.S. oil drilling rigs fell by six to 386, representing the 12th consecutive week of weekly declines. Major draws in the number of oil rigs nationwide typically provide lagging indications that production is about to level off. Last week, U.S. crude production edged up by 1,000 barrels per day to 9.078 million bpd, ending a skid of six consecutive weekly declines. Last June, U.S. crude output hovered around 9.6 million bpd, its highest level in at least 40 years.  
