Title: Gold prices dip in Asia as political risk concerns over Turkey wane
Date: 20160717
Content:
Investing.com - Gold eased off gains in Asia on Monday in cautious trade after a failed weekend military takeover in NATO ally Turkey was assessed with sentiment that political risk for now from the event was on the wane. Gold for August delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange dipped 0.05% to $1,326.70 a troy ounce. Also on the Comex, silver futures for September delivery fell 0.60% to $20.045 a troy ounce, while copper futures fell 0.67% to $2.221 a pound even after a gain in house prices data for June in China of 7.3% year-on-year with the previous month up 6.9%. This week, investors will focus on Thursday’s European Central Bank meeting to see if policymakers will step up monetary stimulus to counteract the negative economic shock from the Brexit vote and Friday’s survey data on euro zone business activity, as well as a report on German business confidence, for fresh indications on the health of the region’s economy in wake of Britain's vote to exit the European Union. Meanwhile, the U.K. will stay in the spotlight as key economic indicators for the British economy are released. In the U.S., investors will eye a pair of reports on the housing sector to gauge if the world's largest economy is strong enough to withstand further rate hikes in 2016. Markets in Japan are shut on Monday for a holiday. Last week, gold prices declined on Friday, after a number of upbeat U.S. economic reports suggested that economic growth regained speed in the second quarter. Prices of the yellow metal turned slightly higher in post-settlement trade after news broke of an apparent military coup in Turkey. But the coup attempt crumbled as President Recep Tayyip Erdogan rushed back to Istanbul from a Mediterranean holiday and urged people to take to the streets in support of his government against plotters he accused of trying to kill him. Earlier, gold fell to the lowest levels of the session after data showed that U.S. retail sales rose more than expected in June, as Americans bought motor vehicles and a variety of other goods, bolstering views that economic growth picked up in the second quarter. Those expectations were further reinforced by other data on Friday showing that industrial production recorded its biggest increase in 11 months in June, driven by a surge in motor vehicle assembly. With domestic demand strengthening, inflation is also steadily rising. The bullish data could allow the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates later this year, but much will depend on policymakers' assessment of the impact on the U.S. economy of Britain's June 23 vote to leave the European Union. Three Federal Reserve policymakers on Thursday expressed the view that there was no hurry to raise U.S. interest rates in the wake of the U.K. decision to leave the European Union, despite signs that the U.S. economy is near full employment. Interest rate futures are currently pricing in a 43% chance of a rate hike by December. Gold is sensitive to moves in U.S. rates. A gradual path to higher rates is seen as less of a threat to gold prices than a swift series of increases. Gold is up nearly 25% so far this year, drawing support from fading expectations of a Fed rate hike and as expectations mounted that central banks around the world will step up monetary stimulus to counteract the negative economic shock from the Brexit vote. 
