Title: Gold prices higher in Asia after Fed minutes note global econ headwinds
Date: 20160706
Content:
Investing.com - Gold gained in Asia on Thursday as minutes from the Federal Reserve's June board meeting suggested any move to raise interest rates this year will be set against global economic headwinds. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for August delivery rose 0.27% to $1,270.75 a troy ounce. Silver futures for August delivery gained 0.39% to $20.282 a troy ounce, while copper futures for September delivery rose 0.19% to $2.160 a pound. Overnight, gold surged to fresh 28-month highs, ahead of the release of the minutes of the Federal Reserve's June meeting on Wednesday afternoon, amid renewed concerns on the long-term ramifications of last month's Brexit decision. Over the first seven months of 2016, gold has surged nearly 30% as investors have hedged against widespread uncertainties surrounding the global economy and have responded to broad signals from the Fed of a delayed interest rate hike. More recently, Gold has jumped more than 8% since polls closed in the U.K. on June 23 in the historic referendum. Metal traders continued to closely monitor currency fluctuations in the Pound after the British currency fell to an intraday low of 1.2797 against the U.S. Dollar, dropping below 1.28 for the first time in more than three decades. Earlier on Wednesday, Henderson and Columbia Thread Needle became the latest major U.K. property funds to halt redemptions, citing exceptional liquidity pressures in the wake of the Brexit vote. It followed similar moves by M&G Property Portfolio,  Aviva  (LON:LON:AV) and  Standard Life  (LON:LON:SL) in recent days. In total, leading U.K. commercial property funds have locked up approximately £13 billion in investments, according to The Guardian. The actions exacerbate fears that commercial property values nationwide will fall precipitously if the U.K. decides to invoke Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, triggering a two-year formal process to leave the European Union. Investors who are bullish on Gold are in favor of a gradual tightening of monetary policy by the Fed. Gold, which is not attached to interest rates, struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. Elsewhere, investors continued to pile into safe-haven assets.  
