Title: Gold gains in Asia as busy policy, data week for markets kicks off
Date: 20161009
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices gained in Asia on Monday with investors set for a busy week of policy views and the volatile race for the U.S. presidency with Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton slated for their second of three debates during the session and China markets re-opening after a week-long holiday. Gold for December delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange rose 0.82% to $1,262.15 a troy ounce. Also on the Comex, silver futures for December delivery jumped 2.00% to $17.727 a troy ounce. Elsewhere in metals trading, copper for December delivery gained 0.18% to $2.172 a pound. Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda, Fed Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer and People's Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan all made comments at the weekend, among others, on the policy outlook in Washington at at an IMF meeting. On Wednesday, attention turns to the minutes of the Federal Reserve’s September policy meeting for fresh clues on the timing of the next U.S. rate hike. U.S. retail sales data will also be in the spotlight, as investors attempt to gauge if the world's largest economy is strong enough to withstand an increase in borrowing costs before the end of the year. In addition, there are a handful of Fed speakers on tap, including Chair Janet Yellen, as traders look for more clues on the likelihood of a December rate hike. Elsewhere, China is to release what will be closely watched trade and inflation data amid ongoing concerns over the health of the world's second biggest economy. Last week, gold prices ended lower on Friday, reversing earlier gains, as disappointing U.S. employment data was seen as unlikely to alter the Federal Reserve’s plan for raising interest rates before the end of the year. The U.S. economy added 156,000 jobs last month, down from a gain of 167,000 in August, while the unemployment rate ticked up to 5.0%, the Labor Department said Friday. Market analysts had expected 176,000 new jobs and the jobless rate to hold at 4.9%. Hourly wages for private sector workers rose 2.6% in September from the same month a year earlier, in line with expectations. Despite the lackluster report, the slowdown was not expected to prevent the Federal Reserve from raising interest rates later this year. Markets are currently pricing in around a 65.1% chance of a rate hike at December's meeting, according to Investing.com's Fed Rate Monitor Tool. A stronger U.S. dollar usually weighs on gold, as it dampens the metal's appeal as an alternative asset and makes dollar-priced commodities more expensive for holders of other currencies. 
