Title: Gold prices rise in Asia as investors parse U.S. hiring report
Date: 20160510
Content:
Investing.com - Gold rose in Asia on Wednesday as investors digested a mixed U.S. hiring report. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for June delivery rose 0.15% to $1,266.75 a troy ounce. Silver futures for July delivery on the Comex gained 0.28% to $17.140 ma troy ounce, while copper futures for July delivery lost 0.10% to $2.095 a pound. Overnight, gold futures stabilized on Tuesday, one day after suffering their worst one-day decline in two months, as investors reacted to relatively flat China inflation data and an unexpected rise in U.S. job openings in a pair of closely watched reports. Despite the recent downturn, gold is still up by more than 17% since the start of the year and is on pace for one of its strongest first halves in more than a decade. In overnight, Asian trading, China's National Statistics Bureau said its Consumer Price Index for April rose 2.3% on an annual basis, slightly lower than consensus estimates of 2.4% and in line with March's reading. On a monthly basis, consumer inflation in China ticked down mildly by 0.2%. The overall index received a boost from a surge in food prices, which rose 7.4% over the last year amid continual increases in pork prices. Over the last 12 months, the price of pork in China surged by 33.5%, building on gains of 28.4% a month earlier. At the same time, the Producer Price Index (PPI) decreased by 3.8% on an annual basis in April, but at a lower rate than in March when it fell sharply by 4.3%. Still, producer prices in China have fallen on a yearly basis for each of the last 50 months. For the month, the PPI increased modestly by 0.7%. China is the world's largest producer of gold and the second-largest consumer of the yellow metal behind India. Elsewhere, the U.S. Department of Labor said Tuesday that job openings in March rose by 149,000 on a seasonally-adjusted basis, lifting the job opening rate by 0.1% to 3.9%. Hiring rates, though, fell slightly by 0.1% to 3.7%, providing indications that employers experienced difficulty finding qualified workers. The report came in the wake of a relatively soft monthly employment report last week, which showed that nonfarm payrolls rose in April by the lowest level in seven months. Separately, the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta said Tuesday that its GDPNow Forecast model now sees an increase of 2.2% in second quarter GDP, up from estimates of 1.7% on May 4. The Federal Reserve has continually reiterated that it is taking a data-driven approach to the timing of its first interest rate hike in 2016. Any rate hikes by the Fed this year are viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. 
