Title: Gold hovers near 27-month highs, as global growth concerns fester
Date: 20160705
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold surged more than 1% on Tuesday in spite of a broadly stronger dollar, as investors continued to pile into the safe-haven asset amid widespread concerns of a global economic slowdown. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, Gold for August delivery traded between $1,340.50 and $1,358.95 an ounce, before closing at $1,358.35, up $19.45 or 1.45% on the session. Gold has hovered neared 27-month highs since soaring nearly $100 an ounce in a single session in late-June after voters in the U.K. approved a referendum paving the way for a potential departure from the European Union. Since opening the year around $1,075, Gold has soared nearly 25% over the last six months, amid mounting concerns of a worldwide recession and a delayed interest rate hike from the Federal Reserve. Gold likely gained support at $1,247.30, the low from June 8 and was met with resistance at $1,360.15 the high from July 4. Investors continued to closely monitor banking stocks in Italy one day after reports surfaced that the European Central Bank asked bank Monte dei Paschi di Siena to accelerate its sale of troublesome Non-Performing Loans (NPL). On Monday, Monte Paschi, the third-largest bank in Italy, said it received a letter from the ECB asking the lender to come up with a three-year business plan to cut the amount of its Non-Performing Loans nearly in half to 14.6 billion euro's by 2018. The letter came on the heels of conflicting reports that Italy prime minister Matteo Renzi could flout EU banking rules by injecting up to €150 billion of liquidity into banks nationwide in order to rescue the troubled financial sector. Banking stocks in Italy have tumbled more than 30% since the Brexit referendum passed, extending sharp losses year to date. Complicating matters, new EU rules passed in January prevent the use of public funds to support troubled banks until creditors from the private sector have been "bailed-in," or have assumed a burden of the bad debt that is being written off. As a result, a number of investors holding the junior bonds could take a hit if the EU prohibits the Italian government from providing emergency support to the banks. More broadly, the reports exacerbate concerns that Italy may consider a referendum to leave the EU, helping contagion fears of the potential collapse of the European bloc. Gold is a safe-haven for investors in periods of significant economic uncertainty. Elsewhere, officials from China's National Statistics Bureau (NSB) announced on Tuesday that it is changing its method for calculating the nation's GDP, marking the second time the bureau has made an adjustment to the calculation in less than a year. The adjustment will reportedly add $131 billion to the world's second-largest economy for fiscal year 2015. However, the correction could also lead to growing concerns among economists related to further slowdowns in the Chinese economy after GDP growth last year slumped below 7.0% for the first time in more than two decades. China is the world's largest producer of Gold and the second-largest consumer of the precious metal behind India. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, rose more than 0.50% to an intraday high of 96.46, before falling slightly back to 96.12 in U.S. afternoon trading. While the index is up by more than 2.5% since the Brexit referendum, it is still down by approximately 4% from its December highs. Dollar denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Silver for August delivery gained 0.389 or 1.97% to $19.977 an ounce. On Monday, silver futures surged above 21.20 an ounce to hit fresh two-year highs. Copper for September delivery fell 0.034 or 1.53% to $2.183 a pound.
