Title: Crude pares gains after hitting 3-week highs, amid rumors of OPEC cuts
Date: 20160128
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude futures surged to fresh three-week highs amid reports that OPEC could slash production in an effort to stem a 14-month downturn, before paring some of the gains on Thursday afternoon after a host of representatives from the cartel refuted speculation of any imminent cuts. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for March delivery wavered between $31.75 and $34.80 a barrel before settling at $33.25, up 0.95 or 2.91% on the session. At session high's, the front month contract for U.S. crude surged above $34 a barrel for the first time since January 8. Since slipping below $26.50 to fall to 12-year lows early last week, WTI crude has closed in the green in five of the last six sessions. During that span, Texas, light, sweet futures have soared by more than 24%. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for April delivery traded in a broad range between $33.40 and $36.73 a barrel, before closing at $34.87, up 0.92 or 2.74% on the day. At one point on Thursday, North Sea brent crude reached as high as $36.67, its highest level since Jan. 6. Brent crude futures have closed in positive territory in six of the last seven sessions, rallying approximately 25% over the last week. Both the international and U.S. domestic benchmarks soared more than 7% on Thursday at session high's. Crude continued its rally on Thursday after reports surfaced that OPEC could meet with members outside the cartel next month to address potential production cuts in order to reduce the excessive supply glut on global energy markets. Russia energy minister Alexander Novak said Saudi Arabia has proposed cutting oil production by as much as 5%, according to Russian news agency Interfax, while the size of production cuts are currently being discussed. Hours later, however, four representatives from OPEC member states told Bloomberg they were unaware of such a meeting, while another representative had no knowledge of a considerable supply cut. When top OPEC officials reportedly met with Russia before its semi-annual meeting in Vienna last month, the two sides were unable to reach an agreement to lower their respective production ceilings. As a result, both Russia and Saudi Arabia are projecting massive budget deficits this year, as crude prices slump below $40 a barrel for the eighth consecutive week. Daily production in Saudi Arabia remains near-record highs above 10 million barrels per day, while Russian production continues to hover near post-Soviet records. In the U.S. meanwhile, the Energy Information Administration said Wednesday that U.S. commercial crude oil inventories for the week ending on January 22, increased by 8.4 million barrels from the previous week. At 494.9 million barrels, U.S. crude oil inventories remain near levels not seen for this time of year in at least the last 80 years. Although crude production fell mildly, it still remained above 9.2 million barrels for the fifth consecutive week. U.S. crude output continues to linger near its high from June when weekly production surged to its highest level in more than 40 years. Over the last 19 months, crude has slumped by more than 70% from its level in June, 2014, when it eclipsed $110 a barrel. Oil prices have tumbled, as global supply continues to severely outpace demand. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, fell more than 0.50% on Thursday to an intraday low of 98.45. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates.
