Title: Gold prices up slightly in Asia as Fed policymaker remarks weighed
Date: 20160321
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices drifted slightly higher in Asia on Tuesday as markets weighed fresh comments from Fed policymakers on the track for rate hikes in 2016. Gold for April delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange rose 0.14% to $1,245.90 a troy ounce. Also on the Comex, silver futures for May delivery fell 0.04% to $15.840 a troy ounce, while copper futures edged down 0.04% to $2.286 a pound. On Tuesday, Atlanta Fed President Dennis Lockhart said that despite risks to the downside that have arisen since the beginning of the year the U.S. economy continues to grow about as he expected. "Summing up everything that had occurred since the beginning of the year through the March meeting there had been risk developments that might tilt the balance slightly to the downside," he said at an event in Georgia, "but the key thing is that the economy continues to perform substantially on the track that I expected last December when I voted for the liftoff decision." "The real economy data remains substantially on track," he said, adding he expects consumer spending trends here to hold up contributing to the 2% to 2.5% growth he expects and offsetting contributions from net exports and government spending. Overnight, gold futures were lower in North American trade on Monday before the remarks from Lockhart and others. Earlier in the day, San Francisco Fed President John Williams downplayed worries that falling market-based measures of inflation are predictive of overall U.S. price measures. Williams added that the central bank could still increase interest rates in April and June if economic data provides a backdrop for such a policy move. Meanwhile, Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker said that U.S. inflation will likely accelerate in coming years and move toward the Fed's 2% target after the price of oil bottoms out. Despite recent losses, prices of the yellow metal are up nearly 16% so far this year as investors seek safe havens in the face of mounting instability in other financial markets and as fears over a China-led global economic slowdown make it tougher for the Fed to raise rates. The U.S. central bank surprised markets last week by cutting its rate hike projections more than expected, down from four to two in 2016, citing the potential impact from weaker global growth and financial market turmoil on the U.S. economy. Investors and economists dialed back their own rate hike expectations in wake of the Fed’s surprisingly dovish outlook, with traders of interest-rate futures now seeing no rate rise before September. A gradual path to higher rates is seen as less of a threat to gold prices than a swift series of increases.  
