Title: Oil slips on modest U.S. draw; market swings seen pre-UK vote
Date: 20160622
Content:
By Barani Krishnan NEW YORK (Reuters) - Oil prices fell about 1 percent on Wednesday after a smaller-than-expected weekly U.S. inventory draw erased early gains in crude futures. Investors also anticipated more market volatility ahead of Thursday's vote on whether Britain should stay in the European Union. Brent crude was down 55 cents, or 1.1 percent, at $50.07 a barrel by 11:08 a.m. EDT, after climbing to $51.24 at the session high. U.S. crude's West Texas Intermediate (WTI) futures fell 50 cents, or about 1 percent, to $49.95, after scaling $51.11 earlier. U.S. crude stockpiles fell 917,000 barrels during the week ended June 17, the fifth consecutive weekly draw, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said. [EIA/S] But decline was smaller than the 1.7 million-barrel drawdown forecast by analysts and much less than the 5.2 million-barrel drop reported on Tuesday by trade group the American Petroleum Institute (API). [API/S] "Today's report is decidedly bearish, which has caught markets off guard after yesterday's API expectation of a 5 million-barrel crude draw," said Troy Vincent, analyst at New York-based crude cargo tracker ClipperData. "Although gasoline demand is still strong relative to year-ago levels, a build to both gasoline and distillate inventories does not bode well for product prices either. With this report, we should expect WTI to move back below $49 this week." U.S. gasoline demand over past four weeks rose 3.9 percent year-on-year, but stocks of the motor fuel rose 627,000 barrels last week, while distillates grew 151,000 barrels. Crude prices had moved higher earlier in the session on optimism Britain will elect to "Remain" in the EU, and investors braced more market swings as the dollar gyrates on speculation over the referendum. The greenback determines demand for dollar-denominated oil among holders other currencies when other fundamental factors are less compelling. "Though some may be forgiven for thinking that the outcome is a foregone conclusion, the inconsistency between the betting money and the polls mean that conditions are ripe for a fresh bout of volatility," said Stephen Brennock of oil broker PVM. Aside from moving on the British vote speculation, the dollar weakened on Wednesday against a basket of currencies after cautious comments on the U.S. economy by Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen, who virtually ruled out a July interest rate hike.  In other industry news, top crude exporter Saudi Arabia said it may reprise its role of balancing supply and demand once the global market for oil recovers. 
