Title: Oil prices reverse early losses, move higher
Date: 20160425
Content:
Investing.com - Oil prices regained ground on Monday, recovering from lows hit earlier in the day as traders cashed in after a strong rally last week. Crude oil for June delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange was up 10 cents or 0.23% at $43.88 a barrel at 0952ET. Global benchmark Brent was up 23 cents or 0.51% at $45.30 on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. Oil prices fell to the day’s lows earlier as traders took profits after last week’s strong gains. Prices were boosted as the dollar weakened against a basket of the other major currencies ahead of a Federal Reserve policy meeting this week. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, was down 0.37% at 94.75. A stronger dollar, in which oil is traded, makes fuel imports for countries using other currencies more expensive. Prices continued to be underpinned by hopes that declining output among non-OPEC producers will help reduce a global supply overhang. The International Energy Agency said Thursday it expects the oil market to rebalance from oversupply by next year, provided there is no major economic downturn. Also Thursday, an official from OPEC said it will discuss freezing oil production at its next meeting in June. But analysts have cautioned that freezing production near current levels is unlikely to reduce the global supply glut. Data last Wednesday showed that U.S. crude stockpiles rose slightly less than expected last week and continued to hover near record highs. The Energy Information Administration reported that U.S. crude inventories increased by 2.08 million barrels in the latest week, bringing total crude stocks to 538.6 million barrels. Crude production continued to decline, falling to an average 8.95 million barrels per day from 8.98 million in the prior week. Production has now fallen in 11 out of the past 12 weeks as low prices continue to erode shale output. On Friday, oil services company Baker Hughes said the number of U.S. oil drilling rigs, viewed as a proxy for activity in the sector, fell for the fifth straight week to the lowest level since November 2009.
