Title: NYMEX crude rebounds in Asia from overnight drop, API estimates ahead
Date: 20160801
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices rebounded in Asia on Tuesday from overnight declines as investors took advantage of sharp dips on global oversupply. Crude oil for September delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange rose 0.25% to $40.16 a barrel. Investors are looking ahead to estimates of U.S. crude and refined product stockpiles at the end of last week from the American Petroleum Institute late Tuesday. The figures are followed by more closely-watched data on Wednesday from the U.S. Department of Energy. Overnight, oil prices fell back towards April lows in North American trade on Monday, reapproaching bear market territory as signs of increasing production in the U.S. and rising output among members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries weighed. Elsewhere, on the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for October delivery shed 61 cents, or 1.4%, to $42.92 a barrel, after falling to a more than three-month low of $42.52 on Friday. Last week, London-traded Brent futures declined $3.24, or 7.07%, the second straight weekly fall. Brent prices ended July with a monthly loss of 12.7% as prospects of increased exports from Middle Eastern and North African producers, such as Iraq, Nigeria and Libya, added to concerns that a glut of oil products will cut demand for crude by refiners. OPEC's oil output is likely in July to reach its highest in recent history, a Reuters survey found on Friday, as Iraq pumps more and Nigeria manages to export additional crude despite militant attacks on oil installations. Supply from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries has risen to 33.41 million barrels per day (bpd) in July from a revised 33.31 million bpd in June, according to the survey based on shipping data and information from industry sources. Meanwhile, in Libya, the country's government reached a deal with a brigade controlling the Ras Lanuf and Es Sider oil ports, the major oil terminals that have been shut since December 2014, to restart exports there as part of a political agreement, officials said Friday.  
