Title: Crude ticks down as dollar rallies, amid increased chances for June hike
Date: 20160519
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude prices fell slightly but remained near six-month highs on Thursday, as the dollar surged to its highest level since mid-March amid hawkish indications that the Federal Reserve will likely raise interest rates at a closely-watched meeting next month. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for June delivery traded in a broad range between $46.75 and $48.23 a barrel before settling at $48.17, down 0.02 or 0.04% on the session. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for July delivery wavered between $47.39 and $48.93 a barrel, before closing at $48.81, down 0.13 or 0.25% on the day. Oil prices used a late rally to nearly erase all of its losses from earlier in the session. Both the international and U.S. domestic benchmarks of crude have traded near 2016-yearly highs over the last week, amid a wave of production shutdowns and indications that the global supply-demand imbalance could tighten over the second half of the year. U.S. crude futures have rallied by more than 60% since touching down to 13-year lows at $26.05 a barrel on February 11. On Thursday, energy traders continued to closely monitor fluctuations in the dollar after the greenback rose to 7-week highs early in the session. It came one session after the Federal Open Market Committee sent strong hints that it will raise its benchmark Federal Funds Rate next month if incoming data continues to show improvements in the U.S. economy. Earlier this week, the U.S. Department of Labor said its Consumer Price Index (CPI) rose 0.4% in April, driven by a 9% increase in gasoline prices on the month. Over the last two years, long-term inflation has been restrained by historically low oil prices and sharp appreciations in the dollar. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, surged to an intraday high at 95.51, before falling back to 95.28 in U.S. afternoon trading. The index is still down nearly 5% since the start of December. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign investors when the dollar appreciates. Elsewhere, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) lauded the Saudi Arabia government on Thursday for enacting widespread fiscal reforms over the last several months, including approving significant budget cuts and reducing its reliance on oil. Last year, sharp declines in crude prices resulted in a record budget deficit of $98 billion for the kingdom. In April, Saudi Arabia pumped 10.125 million barrels per day, according to OPEC's Monthly Oil Report, down slightly from March's daily average of 10.133 million bpd. Nevertheless, Saudi production remains near all-time record highs. Separately, the IMF announced that it reached a $5.4 billion standby agreement with Iraq, which could enable the Persian Gulf nation to borrow more frequently in credit markets in order to increase its international credit rating. Iraq, which has also suffered severe economic damage during the oil rout, drilled more than 4.35 million bpd of oil last month – second behind Saudi Arabia among OPEC producers. By year's end, the IMF anticipates that the price of oil will hover around $41 a barrel, the Washington D.C.-based organization said on Thursday. Despite the recent rally in crude price, the global price of oil has fallen more than 55% since peaking at $115 a barrel in June, 2014.
