Title: Gold prices gain slightly in Asia with U.S. CPI in focus
Date: 20160218
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices drifted higher in Asia on Friday ahead of U.S. consumer prices data and a light regional data day. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for April delivery rose 0.04% to $1,231.90 a troy ounce. Silver futures for March delivery gained 0.23% to $15.450 a troy ounce, while copper futures were flat at $2.072 a pound. Investors could gain further insight into the Fed's decision making process on Friday when the U.S. Department of Labor releases the Consumer Price Index for the month of January. On a monthly basis, the CPI is expected to fall by 0.1%, extending losses of 0.1% from December. The Core CPI Index, which strips out volatile food and energy prices, is expected to inch up by 0.1%, following a 0.1% gain a month earlier. Overnight, gold rose considerably on Thursday remaining above $1,200 an ounce, as investors reacted to relatively dovish minutes from the Federal Reserve's January meeting, which provided some indication that the U.S. central bank could delay the pace of its tightening for the remainder of 2016. With the modest gains, gold halted a five-day losing streak, which dated back to last week after the precious metal surged by more than $60 an ounce on February 11. Gold remains slightly below last week's highs around $1,260 an ounce, when it reached its highest level in more than a year. Investors on Thursday continued to digest the minutes from the Federal Open Market Committee's January meeting to gauge the likelihood of an interest rate hike by the central bank before the end of the first half of the year. The minutes from the Fed's first meeting since its historic rate decision in December, depict a divided committee torn on the timing of the pace of tightening needed to help fulfill its dual mandate. While several participants noted that further tightening delays could potentially lead to excessively high inflation, other members expressed concern that premature rate hikes could dampen progress in the economy and labor markets, the minutes showed. Long-term inflation has remained below the FOMC's targeted goal of 2% for every month over the last three years. In December, the FOMC abandoned a seven-year zero interest rate policy by raising the target range on its benchmark Federal Funds Rate by 25 basis points to 0.25 and 0.50%. The CME Group's (O:O:CME) Fed Watch tool increased the probability of one rate hike in 2016 to 33.5% on Thursday, up from an average of 15.1% a day earlier. The odds of a 25 basis point increase in March are still slim. Currently, there is an 8.3% chance of a hike next month, according to the CME Group, down from nearly 30% a month earlier. Any rate hikes this year are viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments.  
