Title: Crude relatively flat, as investors weigh odds of OPEC production freeze
Date: 20160303
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude futures remained near one-month highs, wavering during a see-saw, choppy trade on Thursday, as investors continue to gauge whether OPEC will institute a production freeze later this month in order to stem a prolonged downturn in the oil industry. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for April delivery fluctuated between $34.20 and $35.30 a barrel before settling at $34.55, down 0.11 and 0.32% on the day. At session highs, U.S. crude futures surged above $35.25 for the first time since early-January. After falling to 2003-lows in mid February, WTI crude has rebounded by approximately 25%. WTI crude closed slightly lower after turning negative late in the session. On the Intercontinental Exchange, brent crude for May delivery traded between $36.36 and $37.36 a barrel, before closing at $37.06, up 0.13 or 0.35% on the session. North Brent Sea futures have also gained more than 18% since falling below $30 a barrel on February 11. Crude prices shot up in overnight, Asian trading after bullish comments from Nigeria oil minister Emmanuel Kachikwu on the increased possibility of an OPEC-Non OPEC summit in Russia at the end of this month. The participants are expected to rekindle discussion on a joint agreement to freeze production, as prices remain sharply below levels from 20 months ago when crude peaked at $115 a barrel. Speaking at a conference in Abuja, the Nigerian capital, Kachikwu indicated that the objective of the meeting could be to agree on a compromise that would help raise oil prices back to $50 a barrel. The Nigerian minister's comments come several weeks after four nations including Russia and Saudi Arabia agreed in principle on the Doha Agreement, which would require the participants to cap output at their respective levels from January. The deal has been met with resistance from Iran, which has been looking to ramp up production following the completion of its historic nuclear deal at the start of the year. Neither Iran, nor Saudi Arabia confirmed their participation in the Russia meeting. "We will be focusing more on how we can bring in production-sharing-contracts-type elements into JV structures so that way we can begin to get them back to work,” Kachikwu said. Investors continued to digest a report from Reuters on Wednesday that Saudi Arabia has looked to initiate discussions with a host of major U.S. banks in an effort to secure a loan of up to $10 billion. At the end of last year, Saudi Arabia projected an annual 2016 deficit of 326.2 billion riyals ($87 billion) due primarily to the major downturn in oil prices. Also on Wednesday, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said in its Weekly Petroleum Status Report that U.S. commercial crude inventories for the week ending on February 26 increased by 10.4 million barrels from the previous week. At 518.0 million barrels, U.S. crude oil inventories are at historically high levels for this time of year. Investors turn their attention to Friday's weekly oil rig count from Baker Hughes for further signals on the near-term production outlook throughout the U.S. A week earlier, the U.S. oil rig total fell for the 10th consecutive week, dipping to its lowest level since 2009. Any major declines in the U.S. oil rig count are viewed as a lagging indicator for imminent reductions in production. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, fell sharply by more than 0.65% to an intraday low of 97.46. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates.
