Title: Gold / Silver / Copper futures - weekly outlook: November 7 - 11
Date: 20161106
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices reversed losses to end higher on Friday as nervousness ahead of the upcoming U.S. presidential election offset a solid U.S. jobs report for October that supported that case for a December rate hike by the Federal Reserve. Gold for December delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange was up $2.5, or 0.19%, to settle at $1,305.8 a troy ounce after sliding to $1,296.7 earlier. Gold had hit high of $1,307.00 on Wednesday, the highest level since October 4. Recent opinion polls have pointed to an increasingly uncertain outcome for the U.S. presidential election, rattling global financial markets and pressuring the dollar lower. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, slid 0.26% to 96.94. For the week, the index posted a fall of 1.27%. The greenback remained on the defensive despite data showing that the U.S. economy continued to create jobs at a steady pace in October, although at a slightly slower rate than forecast. The U.S. economy added 161,000 jobs in October from the prior month, the Labor Department said. The unemployment rate ticked down to 4.9% last month from 5% in September. Economists had expected 175,000 new jobs and a jobless rate of 4.9%. The data supported the view that the U.S. central bank will hike interest rates at its next policy meeting in December. Gold is sensitive to moves in U.S. rates, which lift the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding assets such as bullion, while boosting the dollar in which it is priced. Investors are currently pricing in a 66.8% chance of a rate hike at the Fed's December meeting; according to federal funds futures tracked Investing.com's Fed Rate Monitor Tool. But analysts have warned that the U.S. central bank could hold off on hiking rates if the election outcome sparks market volatility. Also on the Comex, silver futures for December delivery were at $18.42 a troy ounce in late trade. Elsewhere in metals trading, copper for December delivery settled at $2.26 a pound. In the week ahead, investors will be focusing their attention on the outcome of Tuesday’s U.S. presidential elections. Trade and inflation data out of China will be watched for indications on the strength of the world’s number-two economy is performing. Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of these and other significant events likely to affect the markets. Monday, November 7 In the euro zone, Germany is to release data on factory orders. The UK is to release industry data on house price inflation. Tuesday, November 8 China is to report on the trade balance. The UK is to publish figures on industrial and manufacturing production. Canada is to produce data on building permits and housing starts. In the U.S., voting in the presidential election will take place. Wednesday, November 9 China is to publish data on consumer and producer price inflation. The European Commission is to publish its two-year economic forecasts for the European Union. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand is to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish a policy statement which outlines economic conditions and the factors affecting the monetary policy decision. Thursday, November 10 Canada is to release data on new house price inflation. The U.S. is to publish the weekly report on initial jobless claims. Friday, November 11 The U.S. is to round up the week with preliminary data on consumer sentiment and inflation expectations for the University of Michigan.
