Title: Gold rallies as dollar retreats from 2-week high in quiet trade
Date: 20160511
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold rallied from a massive two-day sell-off on Wednesday, as the dollar eased off two-week highs from the previous session in quiet trade, while investors continued to await a controversial Brexit vote in late-June and the next moves from top central banks for further signals on the direction of the global economy. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for June delivery traded in a broad range between $1,266.00 and $1,280.60 an ounce before settling at $1,274.15, up $9.35 or 0.74% on the session. Gold fell approximately $30 an ounce over the previous two sessions, as the dollar rebounded amid indications that the Federal Reserve may disregard a soft U.S. jobs report from late last week and warnings from Japan's finance minister that the government could intervene in foreign exchange markets if necessary. The precious metal is still up roughly 20% since the start of the year and is on pace for one of its strongest first halves in more than a decade. Gold likely gained support at $1,063.20, the low from January 4 and was met with resistance at $1,322.10, the high from August 8, 2014. Investors on Wednesday continued to digest comments from Federal Reserve Bank of New York president William Dudley a session earlier on the strength of the dollar. At a closely-watched speech in Zurich, Dudley noted that he doesn't believe the dollar would falter if other top currencies materialized as alternatives to the greenback as the world's reserve currency. Last Friday, Dudley emphasized that the U.S. central bank could still raise interest rates as much as twice this year in spite of the downbeat employment data. The dollar has lost approximately 6% against its main rivals over the last five months. "I don't see this as a zero-sum game," Dudley said. "If other countries' currencies emerge to gain stature as reserve currencies, it is not obvious to me that the United States loses. I believe that the most important goal must be to keep our own house in order. If we do this, then I expect that the U.S. dollar will earn the right to remain the most important reserve currency in the world." Earlier, Bank of England chancellor George Osborne admitted that the Treasury has engaged in significant contingency planning in case a Brexit referendum passes on June 23 to pave the way for a British departure from the European Union. Several U.S. monetary policymakers including San Francisco Fed president John Williams, Atlanta Fed president Dennis Lockhart  and Dallas Fed president Rob Kaplan have indicated that the Brexit vote could affect the Fed's interest rate decision a week earlier, while St. Louis Fed president James Bullard has played down the global ramifications of a potential departure by the U.K. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, fell more than 0.50% to an intraday low of 93.65. The index is on pace to halt a six-day winning streak. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Silver for July delivery gained 0.248 or 1.45% to $17.340 an ounce. Copper for July delivery added 0.010 or 0.45% to $2.102 a pound
