Title: Price of Brent oil settles higher on Thursday
Date: 20161215
Content:
Investing.com - Oil prices were mixed on Thursday, as traders debated the impact of Federal Reserve rate cuts on the U.S. economy, and wondered whether Russian oil production cuts would work as planned. The price of Brent oil was up slightly, settling at $54.16, an increase of 26 cents per barrel, or 0.48%. The price of West Texas crude oil was down a bit, settling at $51.03, a decrease of 0.02%. Yesterday, the Fed raised interest rates 0.25%, effective immediately, and announced that rates would rise three times again next year. The move is designed to dampen inflation, which is incipient in the U.S., due to an economy that is finally expanding after a decade of being in the doldrums. Over the weekend, the Russian government agreed to join the production cut started by OPEC nations. But late yesterday, Russia's economic ministers started speaking about the impact that move will have on the economy there. This helped influence the mood of today's oil markets.  Vladimir Putin is said to want to purchase 2,500 new tanks, the T-14 models, known as the "Armatas." But the government lacks the funds for the defense outlay. So the Russians are agreeing to a production cut in oil, to drive up prices, and thus profits, which it can use for defense spending. The goal is to “divide up the additional resources,” Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said yesterday. The Bank of Russia Governor Elvira Nabiullina, however, called for a “healthy conservatism” in economic forecasting and worried that crude prices represent a “serious risk” for the economy. The risk stems from President-elect Donald Trump's promise to unleash domestic oil production in the U.S., which would drive prices down globally. The economy of Russia, the world’s biggest energy exporter is now at risk of stagnation, as the nation is running the widest budget deficit in half a decade, and the Finance Ministry needs to be cautious on spending, Nabiullina said.
