Title: NYMEX crude higher in Asia as API estimates show draw
Date: 20160802
Content:
Investing.com - Crude prices rebounded in Asia on Wednesday after U.S. industry estimates showed a drop in stockpiles. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for September delivery rose 0.66% to $39.77 a barrel. The American Petroleum Institute said Tuesday that U.S. crude oil inventories fell by 1.3 million barrels in the latest week, sources said. The drop comes ahead of Wednesday's government report that could show that crude inventories nationwide fell by 1.9 million barrels for the week ending on July 29. A week earlier, inventories unexpectedly rose by 1.7 million barrels, halting a streak of nine consecutive weekly draws. Additionally, gasoline inventories are expected to decline by 1.0 million barrels on the week, while distillate fuel inventories could fall by 833,000 barrels, analysts say. Gasoline inventories have swelled to a near-record high of 500 million barrels worldwide, according to analysts from  Citigroup  Inc (NYSE:NYSE:C), as refineries churn out product at a rapid pace amid low crude prices. Overnight, crude futures fell considerably, dropping to fresh 14-week lows, as investors awaited further signs of potential volatility on global energy markets. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude for October delivery wavered between $41.52 and $43.16 a barrel, before settling at $41.78, down 0.34 or 0.81% on the day. Crude prices fluctuated wildly on Tuesday in a volatile day of trading, erasing gains from the morning session triggered by sharp declines in the dollar. Hours later, however, oil futures fell back below the critical $40 level amid persistent concerns of oversupply worldwide. A session earlier, oil plunged nearly 4% to dip under $40 for the first time since a highly-anticipated Doha agreement collapsed in mid-April. Investors continue to closely monitor activity on the options markets, after short positions in WTI increased last week by nearly 39,000 for the week ending on July 26, data from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) shows. The sharp rise in short bets on WTI options and futures marked the biggest weekly increase dating back to 2006, according to the CFTC. 
