Title: Oil prices slump to 2-week lows amid mounting Brexit anxiety
Date: 20160614
Content:
Investing.com - Oil prices extended overnight losses in European trade on Tuesday, slumping to two-week lows as global concerns over a Brexit weighed on appetite for riskier assets. Recent polls suggested support for the U.K. campaign to leave the European Union is picking up. Britain's "Out" campaign widened its lead over the "In" camp ahead of the country's June 23 referendum, according to two opinion polls published by ICM on Monday. A vote by Britain to leave the European Union may tip Europe back into recession, putting more pressure on the global economy. On the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for August delivery fell to an intraday low of $49.61 a barrel, a level not seen since June 3. It last traded at $49.68 by 07:55GMT, or 3:55AM ET, down 67 cents, or 1.33%. A day earlier, London-traded Brent slumped 19 cents, or 0.38%. Brent futures prices are still up by roughly 90% since briefly dropping below $30 a barrel in mid-February as unplanned supply disruptions in Africa eased concerns over a global glut Market participants will keep an eye out for a monthly report from the International Energy Agency later in the session to gauge global supply and demand levels. The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries kept forecasts for global oil supply and demand unchanged in its monthly market report published Monday. Elsewhere, crude oil for July delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange dropped 71 cents, or 1.45%, to trade at $48.17 a barrel after falling to a session low of $48.11 a barrel, the weakest level June 2. On Monday, New York-traded oil prices shed 19 cents, or 0.39%, after industry group Genscape reported an increase of 525,000 barrels at the Cushing, Oklahoma delivery point for WTI futures during the week to June 10. Market players now looked ahead to fresh weekly information on U.S. stockpiles of crude and refined products. The American Petroleum Institute will release its inventories report later in the day, while Wednesday’s government report could show crude stockpiles fell by 2.3 million barrels in the week ended June 10. U.S. crude futures are up nearly 85% since falling to 13-year lows at $26.05 on February 11 as a decline in U.S. shale production boosted sentiment. However, with prices now at levels that make drilling economical for some firms, the rig count might start rising soon and the decline in U.S. production may slow. According to oilfield services provider Baker Hughes, the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. increased by three last week to 328, the second straight weekly rise. The renewed gain in U.S. drilling activity fueled speculation that domestic production could be on the verge of rebounding in the weeks ahead, underlining worries over a supply glut. Meanwhile, Brent's premium to the WTI crude contract stood at $1.51 a barrel, compared to a gap of $1.47 by close of trade on Monday. 
