Title: NYMEX crude dips in Asia as freeze, China policy eyed
Date: 20160320
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices dipped in early Asia on Monday in thin trade as investors await clarity on prospects for a freeze in output by major producers and the outlook on China demand. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in April dropped 0.56% to $40.91 a barrel. In the week ahead, market players will be turning their attention to Friday’s final reading on U.S. fourth quarter gross domestic product for fresh indications on the strength of the economy. Reports on U.S. durable goods orders and home sales will also be in focus, as investors attempt to gauge if the world's largest economy is strong enough to withstand further rate hikes in 2016. Traders will also be paying close attention to a number of speeches from key Fed officials this week, including James Bullard, Dennis Lockhart, Jeffrey Lacker, Charles Evans and Patrick Harker. Meanwhile, market players will be looking to Tuesday’s survey data on euro zone business activity as well as fresh readings on German economic sentiment for indications on the health of the region’s economy. U.K. consumer price inflation and retail sales data will also be in focus. Markets are closed Friday for Good Friday. Below-average trade volume in a holiday-shortened week could exacerbate any moves and increase volatility. Last week, oil futures retreated from three-and-a-half month highs on Friday after the U.S oil rig count rose the first time since December, but prices still posted weekly gains amid growing hopes major oil producers will work together to cap output. The U.S. benchmark reversed gain in late trade after oilfield services provider Baker Hughes said Friday that the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. increased by one last week to 387, ending three straight months of weekly declines. The renewed gain in U.S. drilling activity fueled speculation that domestic production could be on the verge of rebounding in the weeks ahead, underlining worries over a supply glut. Elsewhere, on the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for May delivery shed 34 cents, or 0.82%, on Friday to close the week at $41.20 a barrel, after climbing to a daily high of $42.54, a level not seen since December 7. According to Qatari oil minister Mohammed Bin Saleh Al-Sada, producers from within and outside OPEC will meet in Doha on April 17 to discuss plans for a freeze in output. The initiative was supported by around 20 OPEC and non-OPEC producers, accounting for about 73% of global oil production, according to Venezuela’s Oil Minister. Brent futures are up by roughly 40%, since briefly dropping below $30 a barrel on February 11. Short-covering began in mid-February after Saudi Arabia and fellow OPEC members Qatar and Venezuela agreed with non-OPEC member Russia to freeze output at January levels, provided other oil exporters joined in. 
