Title: Gold holds steady in familiar territory as Fed, BOJ meetings begin
Date: 20160920
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices held steady in familiar territory during North America's session on Tuesday, with investors largely sitting tight before the Federal Reserve and Bank of Japan issue highly anticipated policy decisions. Gold for December delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange dipped 65 cents, or 0.05%, to trade at $1,317.75 a troy ounce by 8:45AM ET (12:45GMT). On Monday, prices tacked on $7.60, or 0.58%, as the U.S. dollar slipped amid expectations of no rate change from the Fed. While the overwhelming consensus is for the Fed to hold rates steady at the conclusion of its policy meeting on Wednesday, some market players expect it to drop a clearer hint that it is ready to raise rates by December. Markets are currently pricing in just a 12% chance of a rate hike this week, according to Investing.com's Fed Rate Monitor Tool. For December, odds stood at around 59%. The precious metal is sensitive to moves in U.S. rates, which lift the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding assets such as bullion, while boosting the dollar in which it is priced. A gradual path to higher rates is seen as less of a threat to gold prices than a swift series of increases. The market is also waiting for the outcome of a Bank of Japan policy meeting on Wednesday, with speculation rife that the Japanese central bank will make crucial changes to its easing program. Speculation points to a possible interest rate cut deeper into negative territory, tweaks to its asset-purchase program or new rules on the duration of securities it will purchase in the bond market. The BOJ has already implemented negative interest rates and is printing 80 trillion yen ($750 billion) a year to stimulate inflation after decades of deflation and stagnant growth, yet inflationary expectations appear to be weakening. In the currency market, the U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback's value against a basket of six major currencies, was at 95.85 early Tuesday. On Friday, it touched a two-week high of 96.11. Against the yen, the dollar fell nearly 0.1% to 101.80 after touching a session low of 101.55, which was the lowest level since September 13. 
