Title: NYMEX crude gains in Asia as investors await OPEC talks
Date: 20160814
Content:
Investing.com - Crude futures gained in Asia on Monday as sentiment carried over from last week on prospects for OPEC to curb or stabilize production. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in September rose 0.38% to $44.66 a barrel even as demand prospects regionally looked dim as Japan reported second quarter GDP with a gain of 0.2% year-on-year, missing the 0.7% rise seen, and a flat quarter-on-quarter pace, below the 0.2% increase expected, with the figures weighed down by sluggish private consumption and net exports. "There are some positive signs in capital investment but we need to watch the developments because corporate profits are being flat now in light of the appreciation of the yen," a senior Cabinet Office official said after the data.Consumer spending, which accounts for about 60% of the GDP, rose 0.2% on quarter compared to a 0.1% decline seen, but that did little to lift spirits. "Private consumption remains largely flat. Our assessment is unchanged," the official said. In the week ahead, oil traders will be focusing on U.S. stockpile data on Tuesday and Wednesday for fresh supply-and-demand signals. Last week, oil futures soared for the second day in a row on Friday, ending at a three-week high as investors continued to cover short positions after Saudi Arabia's oil minister hinted that the kingdom could be open to discussions next month aimed at stabilizing the market. Crude pared some gains after a report showed the number of U.S. oil rigs rose for the seventh straight week, underling concerns over a global supply glut. Crude futures spiked nearly 5% on Thursday as investors returned to the market to cover short positions after Saudi Oil Minister Khalid al-Falih said OPEC members and non-members would discuss potential action to stabilize oil prices during a meeting next month in Algeria. OPEC announced that the 14-member bloc will meet on the sidelines of an energy conference in Algeria from September 26-28, reviving the idea of a coordinated production cap. However, market players remained skeptical that the meeting would result in any concrete actions to freeze output. An attempt to jointly freeze production levels earlier this year failed after Saudi Arabia backed out over Iran's refusal to take part of the initiative. Indications of an ongoing recovery in U.S. drilling activity kept a lid on oil prices. According to oilfield services provider Baker Hughes, the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. last week increased by 15 to 396, the seventh consecutive weekly rise and the 10th increase in 11 weeks. 
