Title: Crude retreats from 2-month highs amid bearish Kuwait, Goldman comments
Date: 20160308
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude futures retreated from near two-month highs, as Kuwait expressed resistance to a comprehensive deal among major producers to freeze output unless OPEC receive cooperation from all of its 13 members, including a defiant Iran. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for April delivery wavered between $36.47 and $38.38 a barrel, before closing at $36.52, down 1.38 or 3.64% on the session. At session highs, U.S. crude reached its highest level since early-January, before falling back amid a wave of bearish news. WTI crude has still rallied more than 30% since falling to 13-year lows at $26.05 a barrel in mid-February. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for May delivery traded in a broad range between $39.61 and $41.48 a barrel, before settling at 39.63, down 1.21 or 2.96% on the day. With the losses, brent futures halted a seven-day winning streak. On Monday, both the international and U.S. domestic benchmark of crude surged by more than 4%. Crude futures fell back from January highs on Tuesday after Kuwait oil minister Anas al-Saleh declared that his nation would be unwilling to take part in an OPEC-Non OPEC accord, unless the agreement involved every member of the world's largest oil cartel, including Iran. A potential deal could hinge on the inclusion of Iran, which has been hesitant to become involved until its production and export levels return to pre-sanction levels later this year. Iran made its return to global markets earlier this winter after a host of Western Powers eased multi-year economic sanctions upon the completion of a long-awaited nuclear deal. "I'll go full power if there's no agreement. Every barrel I produce I'll sell," Al-Saleh told reporters in Kuwait City. Elsewhere, Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) warned on Tuesday that the recent surge in commodities could be premature and may be unsustainable on a long-term basis. Crude prices have plummeted more than 60% over the last 20 months amid a glut of oversupply on global markets. Also on Tuesday, China's Customs bureau reported that crude imports surged by 19.1% or 8 million barrels per day in February, despite weak trade data for the month. Separately, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) lowered its world demand growth outlook by 90,000 bpd to 1.15 million bpd for 2016 in a monthly report. The EIA also lowered its forecast for 2017 by 250,000 bpd to 1.21 million bpd. Investors await the release of Tuesday's weekly crude inventory report from the American Petroleum Institute for further indications on the supply-demand imbalance on U.S. domestic markets. A separate government report from the EIA on Wednesday could show that U.S. crude stockpiles rose by 3.6 million barrels for the week ending on March 4. Crude inventories nationwide are dangerously close to reaching full capacity after a considerable build of more than 10 million barrels over the final week of February. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, fell to two-week lows at 96.89, before rallying slightly to 97.21 in U.S. afternoon trading. The index is down more 1% over the last two months. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates.
