Title: Gold prices up slightly in Asia as investors eye Fed, Brexit polls
Date: 20160614
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices rose slightly in early Asia on Wednesday with investors awaiting language from the Federal Reserve on the outlook for interest rates this year and monitoring the latest swings in sentiment for a possible exit of the U.K. from the European Union. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for August delivery edged up 0.05% to $1,288.75 a troy ounce. Silver futures for July delivery fell 0.20% to $17.390 a troy ounce, while copper futures for July delivery eased 0.10% to $2.041 a pound. The Federal Reserve will conclude its two-day June monetary policy meeting, with a closely-watched interest rate decision on Wednesday afternoon. While the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) is not expected to raise short-term interest rates at the meeting, Fed chair Janet Yellen could provide clues on whether the U.S. central bank could lift rates before the end of the fall. The FOMC has left the target range of its benchmark Federal Funds Rate steady at a level between 0.25 and 0.50% at each of its first three meetings this year. Overnight, gold remained near four-week highs on Tuesday, as mounting Brexit fears accelerated a global flight to safety that pushed German 10-Year Bunds into negative territory for the first time in history. Investors continued to closely monitor poll results in the U.K., which increasingly show a British public shifting their support to the "Leave," campaign, ahead of next week's controversial Brexit referendum. An online poll from TNS said a Leave vote widened its lead over a vote to "Stay" by a 47-40 margin, as Rupert Murdoch's Sun newspaper backed a campaign to depart from the European Union. Another survey, a YouGov poll for The Times, found that the "Leave" vote held a 46-39% lead, while 11% remained undecided. It came days after a popular columnist from The Telegraph broke ranks with the British establishment and supported a vote to leave. Last week, the Remain campaign held a slight one point lead in the same YouGov poll. Elsewhere, yields on German 10-year bunds tumbled to a record low at Minus-0.034 before rallying slightly to Minus-0.008, as risk-adverse traders continued to pile into safe-haven assets, pushing yields lower. As a result, financial stocks throughout the euro zone tumbled on Tuesday. Shares in both  Deutsche Bank  AG (DE:DE:DBKGn) NA O.N. (NYSE:DB) and  Credit Suisse  (SIX:SIX:CSGN) Group AG (NYSE:CS) fell sharply, each touching down to fresh record-lows during the session. In Asia, yields on the Japan 5-Year fell to a record-low at Minus-0.28%. 
