Title: Gold gains in Asia as investors await Bank of England, eye BoJ
Date: 20160713
Content:
Investing.com - Gold edged higher in Asia with investors keeping a sharp eye on central bank moves with the Bank of England set to announce its latest moves Thursday and questions swirling whether the Bank of Japan may take new easing steps. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for August delivery rose 0.22% to $1,346.55 a troy ounce. Silver futures for September delivery gained 0.39% to $20.492 a troy ouncem, while copepr futures for September delivery fell 0.04% to $2.236 a pound. Overnight, gold rose moderately on Wednesday, amid a softer dollar, as the Pound continued its rally from 31-year lows and the Yen slammed the brakes on one of its worst two-day setbacks of the year in the wake of last weekend's triumph by Shinzo Abe's party in parliamentary elections. In the U.K., former Home Secretary Theresa May was confirmed as Britain's second-ever female prime minister and 54th in history, after David Cameron officially resigned from the position on Wednesday. While it is unclear if May's appointment will boost the U.K.'s chances of gaining access to the European Union's single market, the move helped ease investor sentiments on the strength of the British economy for the time being. When Cameron announced his intentions to step down in late June, he sent indications that he could remain in his post until early-September, potentially stalling any meaningful developments in discussions between U.K. and EU officials. At a press conference outside 10 Downing Street, May promised that the U.K. will forge a bold new role following the decision from voters to leave the EU. "Together we will build a better Britain," May said. Elsewhere, investors digested conflicting reports that Japan could adopt a helicopter monetary policy following former Federal Reserve chair Ben Bernanke's meeting with Abe on Tuesday in Tokyo. The concept of helicopter money involves large scale printing of money by a central bank that is distributed to the public as a way for helping stimulate the economy. Abe unveiled a sweeping reform after his Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) triumphed in upper-house elections over the weekend, which includes a ¥10 trillion ($98 billion) stimulus plan. In addition, the Japanese government lowered its annual March, 2017 consumer inflation forecast from 1.2 to 0.4% on Wednesday. 
