Title: Gold prices dip in Asia as investors await Fed rate review this week
Date: 20160314
Content:
Investing.com - Gold dipped in Asia on Monday as investors took a breather ahead of Federal Reserve review of interest rates this week expected to hold steady, but with the tone of the statement key. Gold for April delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchangefell 0.46%, to $1,253.60 a troy ounce. Elsewhere in metals trading, copper for May delivery rose 1.21% $2.263 a pound as Japan core machinery orders for January spiked 15%, well above the 3.0% gain seen month-on-month and a year-on-year gain of 8.4%, far outpacing a decline of 3.6% expected. Offsetting the gain, official data released over the weekend showed that China's factory output in the first two months of the year slowed to the weakest level since November 2008, adding to the view that the economy remains in the midst of an ongoing slowdown which will require Beijing to roll out more support in coming months. Industrial production rose by an annualized rate of 5.4% in January, below expectations for a 5.6% increase and slowing from a gain of 5.9% in the preceding month, the General Administration of Customs said on Saturday. The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for nearly 45% of world consumption. Also on the Comex, silver futures for March delivery were flat at $15,545 a troy ounce. In the week ahead, investors will be looking to Wednesday’s Federal Reserve policy statement for any indication that the bank is considering slowing the path of interest rate increases this year. Traders will also be awaiting monetary policy announcements from the Bank of Japan, the Bank of England and the Swiss National Bank. Last week, gold prices retreated from a fresh 14-month peak on Friday, as a recovery in the U.S. dollar, stronger global equity markets and higher oil prices dented the metal’s safe-haven appeal. Gold prices soared along with the euro on Thursday after ECB President Mario Draghi rolled out fresh stimulus measures, including increased asset buying and a deeper cut to deposit rates, but signaled there would be no further rate cuts. Gold came under additional pressure as oil prices rallied to fresh three-month highs after the International Energy Agency provided indications that the prolonged rout in oil may have hit a bottom as low prices were beginning to impact production outside of OPEC. Despite Friday’s losses, prices of the yellow metal are up nearly 18% so far this year as investors seek safe havens in the face of mounting instability in other financial markets. 
