Title: NYMEX, Brent up as API draw aids sentiment ahead of Brexit vote
Date: 20160622
Content:
Investing.com - Crude held gains in Asia on Wednesday industry data showed a drop in U.S. stockpiles, underpinning sentiment ahead of the U.K. vote to remain or leave the European Union. The American Petroleum Institute reported that U.S. crude supplies dropped by 5.2 million barrels for the week ended June 17, according to sources. On Monday, data intelligence provider Genscape, Inc. reported a draw of 568,213 at the Cushing Oil Hub in Oklahoma for the week ending on June 17. Separately, Wednesday's government report from the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) could show a nationwide draw of 1.9 million barrels for the week. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for August delivery rose 0.68% to $50.19 a barrel. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude gained 0.57% to $50.91 a barrel. Overnight, U.S. crude futures halted a three-day winning streak on Tuesday, amid a broadly stronger dollar, as Brexit concerns remained in focus. Investors continued to trade cautiously on Tuesday, less than 48 hours before a controversial Brexit referendum is held in the U.K. Oil prices have spiked roughly 7% since last week's tragic killing of Labour Party parliament member Jo Cox, a staunch supporter of the Remain campaign. Following Cox's death in Leeds on June 16, officials on both sides suspended campaigning for two days, helping the "Stay," camp regain momentum. Currently, there is a 76% chance the Remain vote will prevail, according to British sportsbook  Ladbrokes  (LON:LON:LAD), up slightly by one point from Monday's odds. Last week, the "Leave" campaign trailed in median polls by a margin of 60-40. In recent months, a number of major oil companies have expressed stark concerns on the ramifications that could result due to a U.K. departure from the EU. While potentially creating heightened trade barriers between the U.K. and major partners in the euro zone, a Leave vote could also complicate free travel arrangements with British workers employed by foreign oil companies. In addition, Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen cautioned on Tuesday that a Brexit could create a "risk-off" sentiment among traders that has the potential of creating a flight-to-safety in currencies such as the dollar. Such an environment is viewed as bearish for dollar-denominated commodities like crude, which becomes more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates.Elsewhere, traders monitored conflicting reports out of Nigeria on a 30-day ceasefire in the nation's Southern Delta region. Officials from the Niger Delta Avengers (NDA), a militant group which has claimed responsibility for a series of attacks on the oil infrastructure in the region, told Reuters that it has not agreed to a ceasefire with the Nigerian government. Earlier, multiple outlets reported that NDA came to terms on an agreement last week with Nigeria's oil ministry and several state government that would halt the acts of sabotage for at least the next month. Despite a massive rally over the last five months, crude prices are still down more than 50% from their peak of $115 a barrel.  
