Title: Gold struggles near 3-1/2 month low ahead of U.S. inflation data
Date: 20160531
Content:
Investing.com - Gold futures struggled near the lowest level in more than three months in European trade on Tuesday, as investors returning from the long Memorial Day weekend awaited data that could back some Federal Reserve officials' relatively optimistic views on the U.S. economy. The Commerce Department will release its core personal consumption expenditure (PCE) index for April, along with personal income and spending for the same month at 12:30GMT or 8:30AM ET. At 14:00GMT or 10:00AM ET, the Conference Board will publish data on May consumer confidence. Solid readings could further heighten expectations for a move as soon as the Federal Reserve's next policy meeting on June 14-15. Gold for June delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange shed $1.95, or 0.16%, to trade at $1,214.75 by 06:49GMT, or 2:49AM ET. A day earlier, gold sank to a session low of $1,199.00, a level not seen since February 17, as investors continued to factor in an increased chance of a near-term U.S. interest rate rise. Expectations for a summer rate hike mounted after Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen said late Friday that a rate increase would be appropriate in coming months if the economy continues to strengthen. St. Louis Fed President James Bullard was the latest policymaker to suggest that a rate hike in June or July is a real possibility. Speaking in Seoul on Monday, Bullard said global markets appear to be "well-prepared" for a summer interest rate hike. Traders are now pricing in a 28% chance for a rate hike in June and 60% in July, according to CME Group's (NASDAQ:CME) FedWatch tool. September odds were at about 68%. The U.S. dollar held near its highest level in more than two months against a basket of major currencies on hints the Fed is getting closer to raising interest rates. A stronger U.S. dollar usually weighs on gold, as it dampens the metal's appeal as an alternative asset and makes dollar-priced commodities more expensive for holders of other currencies. Gold futures are down nearly 7% so far in May as hawkish comments from Fed officials as well as minutes of the Fed's April meeting have convinced many analysts and investors that a rate hike in June or July is a real possibility. Gold is sensitive to moves in U.S. rates, as a rise would lift the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding assets such as bullion. Elsewhere on the Comex, silver futures for July delivery slumped 31.4 cents, or 1.93%, to trade at $15.95 a troy ounce during morning hours in London, while copper futures declined 1.9 cents, or 0.9%, to $2.095 a pound. Copper traders will be looking out for a pair of reports on China's manufacturing sector due on Wednesday, amid ongoing concerns over the health of the world's second biggest economy. The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for nearly 45% of world consumption. 
