Title: NYMEX, Brent down sharply in Asia as Fed rate hike views weigh
Date: 20160518
Content:
Investing.com - Crude fell further in Asia on Thursday as the minutes of the Federal Reserve's April meeting weighed on the commodity with prospects for a rate hike as early as June expected to boost the greenback further. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for June delivery traded down 1.43% to $47.50 a barrel. Brent crude fell 1.68% to $48.11 a barrel. Overnight, crude futures turned negative shortly before the close of energy markets on Wednesday afternoon after the Federal Reserve sent strong indications in its April minutes that it could raise interest rates next month, triggering a rapid increase in the slumping dollar. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude for July delivery wavered between $48.76 and $49.84, before closing at $48.86, down 0.43 or 0.87% on the day. At one point on Wednesday, North Sea Brent futures approached $50 a barrel for the second consecutive session, a key technical level it last reached on Nov. 4. Both WTI and Brent crude erased previous gains on Wednesday afternoon after the Federal Reserve said it is likely to raise interest rates in June if second quarter U.S. economic data improves, as expected.Minutes after the release, the dollar shot up more than 0.4% to reach its highest level in more than a month. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Earlier, crude pared gains from near six-month highs following the release of an unexpected build in U.S. crude inventories last week. On Wednesday morning, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said U.S. commercial crude oil inventories increased by 1.3 million barrels for the week ending on May 13 from the previous week. At 541.3 million barrels, U.S. crude oil inventories are at historically high levels for this time of year. Analysts expected to see a draw of 2.833 million barrels due to the production shutdown from the Canadian Wildfires, while the American Petroleum Institute reported a decline of 1.2 million barrels on Tuesday after the close of trading. For the week, total motor gasoline inventories decreased by 2.5 million barrels while distillate fuel inventories decreased by 3.2 million barrels. Despite the current upswing in oil prices, crude futures have still fallen by more than 55% from their peak in June, 2014, when they hit $115 a barrel.  
