Title: Gold prices dip in Asia on profit taking, support remains on rate views
Date: 20160225
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices eased in Asia on mild profit taking with continued support seen from easy global monetary policy. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for April delivery eased 0.21% to $1,236.20 a troy ounce. Silver futures for March delivery gained 0.26% to $15.210 a troy ounce, while copper futures for March delivery rose 0.24% to $2.081 a pound. Overnight, gold futures ticked up on Thursday, as metal traders reacted to a mixed batch of U.S. economic data and a major sell-off among equity markets in China ahead of the start of the Group of 20 summit in Shanghai. In overnight Asian trading, the Shanghai Composite Index tumbled more than 6%, amid tighter liquidity requirements, while the offshore yuan moved lower for the fifth consecutive session. It came as the People's Bank of China broadened reserve constraints for a number of financial institution, which reportedly received more favorable treatment from the Chinese central bank in recent months. As a result, the overnight repurchase rate surged 14 basis points, its highest amount In two weeks, to 2.11%. The decline in China's benchmark index marked the steepest one-day fall in a month, pushing year-to-date losses to 22%. China is the world's largest producer of gold and the second-largest consumer of the precious metal behind India. Investors were fairly cautious ahead of a trio of economic releases on Friday morning. The second estimate of fourth quarter Real GDP is expected to come in at 0.4%, slightly below initial forecasts of 0.7%, while analysts anticipate a slight uptick in consumer sentiment from February's flash reading. On Thursday, the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta lowered its forecast for GDP growth in the first quarter by 0.1 to 2.5%. The Core PCE Index, which strips out volatile food and energy prices, is forecasted to rise by 0.2% after a flat reading in December. Core PCE Inflation, is the Federal Reserve's preferred gauge, for price stability. On an annual basis, inflation has remained under the Fed's targeted objective of 2% for every month over the last three years. The Fed could be compelled to delay its pace of tightening if it sees continuing signals of sluggish inflation. Following December's historic rate hike, the U.S. central bank held its benchmark Federal Funds Rate at a targeted range between 0.25 and 0.50 at a meeting last month. Any rate hikes this year are viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments.  
