Title: Gold drops slightly in Asia after China prices data
Date: 20160808
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices dropped slightly in Asia on Tuesday as prices data from China showed a gain in July that kept any views on immediate easier policy prospects in check. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for December delivery dropped 0.12% to $1,339.65 a troy ounce. Silver futures for September delivery fell 0.19% to $19.767 a troy ounce, while copper futures for September delivery were quoted flat at 2.160 a pound. China reported CPI for July with a 0.2% gain in July, a faster pace than the 0.1% gain seen month-on-month and an annual level of 1.7%, a tad below a 1.8% pace seen year-on-year. PPI figures from China showed a decline of 1.7%, less than the fall of 2.0% year-on-year expected. In Australia, NAB business confidence came in at plus-4 for July, compared with a previous reading of plus-6, along with the NAB business survey that reached plus-8, compared with a previous reading of plus-12. Overnight, gold inched down on Monday, amid a moderately stronger dollar, as investors continued to stake their bets on a 2016 interest rate hike from the Federal Reserve following a robust U.S. monthly jobs report at the end of last week. As the labor market continues to rebound from a weak period in May when the U.S. economy only added 24,000 nonfarm jobs for the month, the odds of a Fed rate hike in the coming months have grown considerably following a stellar opening to the summer. Notably, hiring in the lagging construction industry picked up at a higher clip in July by 14,000 for the month, even as job gains in the mining sector remained weak. At the same time, jobs in the temporary help category rose by 17,000, providing indications that large pockets of part-time workers could be on the verge of being hired on a full-time basis. Economists also appear to be encouraged by a spike of 0.3% in average hourly wages, which are now up by 2.6% over the last 12 months. Meanwhile, the unemployment rate stayed flat at 4.9%, while the labor force participation rate inched up by 0.1% to 62.8%. On Monday, the CME Group's (NASDAQ:NASDAQ:CME) Fed Watch tool placed the odds of a September rate hike by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) at 18.0%, up sharply from 9% in last Thursday's session prior to the release. The probability of a December rate hike from the FOMC also increased to 40%, up from 29.4% in the middle of last week. The FOMC has held its benchmark Federal Funds Rate steady at a level between 0.25 and 0.50% at each of its first five meetings this year. Last December, the U.S. central bank halted a seven-year Zero Interest Rate Policy by approving its first rate hike in nearly a decade. Any rate hikes by the Fed this year are viewed as bearish for Gold, which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in periods of rising rate environments.  
