Title: Natural gas futures ease off 13-month high in subdued trade
Date: 20160704
Content:
Investing.com - U.S. natural gas futures declined for the first time in three sessions on Monday, as investors cashed out of the market to lock in gains from a recent rally which took prices to a more than one-year high. Natural gas for delivery in August on the New York Mercantile Exchange shed 1.6 cents, or 0.55%, to trade at $2.899 per million British thermal units by 14:39GMT, or 10:39AM ET. Volumes were expected to be thin, as U.S. financial markets are closed for the Independence Day holiday. Trading in natural gas futures will close at 1:00PM ET. Gas futures jumped to $2.998 on Friday, the most since May 2015, as hot summer temperatures across most parts of the U.S. raised expectations for power generation demand to meet air conditioning needs. Last week, natural gas futures soared 35.1 cents, or 12.21%, the sixth straight weekly gain. A rally for natural gas this time of year isn't unusual. Prices are up nearly 50% since late May as expectations have grown that hot summer weather will lead to heavy demand. Gas use typically hits a seasonal low with spring's mild temperatures, before warmer weather increases demand for gas-fired electricity generation to power air conditioning. Natural gas storage in the U.S. rose by 37 billion cubic feet last week, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, below forecasts for an increase of 45 billion. That compared with builds of 62 billion cubic feet in the prior week, 73 billion a year earlier and a five-year average of 78 billion cubic feet. Total U.S. natural gas storage stood at 3.140 trillion cubic feet, 18.5% higher than levels at this time a year ago and 20.3% above the five-year average for this time of year. In the week ahead, market players will be focusing on weekly U.S. storage data on Thursday for fresh supply-and-demand signals. Some analysts believe this week’s storage addition will be less than usual for this time of year due to a recent burst of warmer-than-normal summer weather across most parts of the U.S. 
