Title: Crude pares sharp losses ahead of closely-watched OPEC meeting
Date: 20160601
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude futures pared some of its sharp losses as OPEC members worked to revive a dormant pact aimed at freezing output, shortly after Russia announced that it will no longer participate in such a deal due to the rising cost of oil. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for July delivery traded in a broad range between $47.76 and $49.10 a barrel before settling at $49.08, down 0.02 or 0.04% on the session. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for August delivery wavered between $48.66 and $50.00 a barrel, before closing at $49.81, down 0.08 or 0.16% on the day. At session-lows, both the U.S. and international benchmarks of crude fell to their lowest levels in a week. Since surging above $50 a barrel for the first time in six months last week, WTI crude has closed lower in five of the last six sessions. The front month contract for U.S. crude has surged approximately 80% since touching down to 13-year lows at $26.05 a barrel on February 11. Crude prices initially fell sharply on Wednesday after Russian energy officials abandoned plans to take part in a comprehensive OPEC-Non-OPEC production freeze that has been in the works since the middle of February. At the time, global oil prices slumped near multi-year lows weighing on the economies of major oil producing states such as: Russia, Saudi Arabia, Venezuela, Nigeria and a host of others. Separately, Russia announced that it will not send representatives to Thursday's semi-annual OPEC meeting in Vienna. "Today, since we are seeing that oil prices have bounced back, and bounced back quite high in comparison with the start of the year, this freeze issue has so far lost its relevance," Russia energy minister Alexander Novak told reporters in Moscow. Meanwhile, a senior OPEC official told Reuters that the Gulf Cooperation Council is hoping for "coordinated action," between member states at the meeting in order to develop a plan aimed at stabilizing global oil prices. The council consists of Saudi Arabia, Qatar and two other Persian Gulf allies in Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates. In recent weeks the group has been met with resistance by Iran, which has been hesitant to cap output as it seeks to ramp up production to pre-sanction levels from 2007. Talks at a closely-watched summit in Doha in mid-April collapsed after Saudi Arabia insisted that Iran participate in any agreement involving a freeze of production. "Iran supports OPEC’s efforts to bring stability to the market with fair and logical prices, but it will not commit to any output freeze," Mehdi Asalia, Iran's representative to OPEC, told state-run news agency Shana. Elsewhere, energy traders await the release of the American Petroleum Institute's weekly crude inventory report after the bell on Wednesday for further indications on the supply-demand balance on U.S. domestic energy markets. The report is being released one day later than normal this week due to the Memorial Day holiday. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, fell more than 0.45% to an intraday low of 95.34. The index has tumbled by more than 4% since early-December when it hovered near 100. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates.
