Title: Gold prices rally more than $10 as China stocks tank
Date: 20160229
Content:
Investing.com - Gold futures pushed higher in European trade on Monday, as sharp declines on China’s stock market drove investors to seek shelter in the safe-haven asset. The Shanghai Composite Index tumbled by more than 4% in early trading to hit levels not seen since late 2014, as China’s central bank guided the yuan to its weakest level in three weeks. Gold for April delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange tacked on $11.20, or 0.92%, to trade at $1,231.60 a troy ounce by 07:55GMT, or 2:55AM ET. On Friday, gold prices tumbled $18.40, or 1.49%, as upbeat U.S. data boosted optimism over the strength of the economy and supported the case for higher interest rates. The U.S. economy grew at an annual rate of 1.0% in the three months to December, up from an initial estimate of 0.7% growth. Economists had expected fourth quarter GDP growth to be revised down to 0.4%. Separate reports, showing personal spending, inflation and consumer sentiment all rose in January added to the view that the U.S. recovery is on track. The likelihood of a June rate hike by the Federal Reserve jumped to 32.2% from 19.7% prior to the upbeat data, according to CME Group’s FedWatch site. Any rate hikes this year are viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. Despite recent losses, prices of the yellow metal are up nearly 15% so far this year amid indications global economic and financial headwinds could make it tough for the Fed to raise interest rates as much as it would like this year. In the week ahead, investors will be focusing on Friday’s U.S. nonfarm payrolls report for February to gauge if the world's largest economy is strong enough to withstand further rate hikes in 2016. Also on the Comex, silver futures for March delivery inched up 7.6 cents, or 0.52%, to trade at $14.76 a troy ounce during morning hours in London. Elsewhere in metals trading, copper futures retreated from the prior session’s three-and-a-half month peak on Monday, but losses were limited amid mounting expectations for further stimulus measures from central banks in Europe and Asia. 
