Title: NYMEX crude drops sharply in Asia on uncertain outcome for Brexit vote
Date: 20160623
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices dropped sharply in Asia on Friday as investors braced for a narrow win for either side of the U.K. referendum to "Remain" or "Leave" the European Union. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for August delivery fell 2.51% to $48.85 a barrel. Energy traders also await Friday's Rig Count report from Baker Hughes for further indications on whether U.S. shale producers are continuing to return online, as oil prices stabilize. A week earlier, the U.S. oil rig count rose by nine to 337 for the week ending on June 10, representing their third straight weekly increase. Initial results in the U.K.'s referendum on membership of the European Union shook markets' earlier conviction that the Remain camp was on the way to victory. The shock came from a crushing victory for Leave in Sunderland in the north-east of England, and only a narrow win for Remain in the neighbouring City of Newcastle. The results were markedly stronger for Leave than pundits had expected, but they may just be an early indicator of widely divergent regional voting patterns. Leave won 61.3% of the vote in Sunderland and 49.3% in Newcastle. Political leaders and officials, with the exception of UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage, have avoided forecasting the result. "I think that Remain might just nick it," Farage said. The campaign evidence is that swathes of London have been solidly Remain. Against this there have been plenty of anecdotes of unhappy Labour politicians, who have seen strong Leave turnout in some of their traditional northern heartlands. The Labour leadership backed Remain, while distancing itself from the stay campaign spearheaded by the Conservative leadership. Overnight, crude futures rose considerably, amid a weaker dollar, as investors awaited the close of polls in the historic Brexit referendum on Thursday evening in the U.K. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude for August delivery wavered between $49.81 and $50.95 a barrel, before settling at $50.94, up 1.06 or 2.11% on the day. Crude futures used a late rally to close near session-highs. As polls in Britain on the U.K.'s potential departure from the European Union remained virtually deadlocked, investors braced for a long, dramatic night before the official results are released at some point on Friday morning. Complicating matters, torrential downpours in London threatened turnout possibly limiting volume among key undecided voters. Regardless, officials from G7 nations have devised comprehensive contingency plans to calm markets on Friday in the event that the "Leave" campaign prevails. Although major media outlets such as the BBC,  ITV  (LON:LON:ITV) and SKY TV are prohibited from reporting the results of exit polls, market indications seem to show that voters have tilted toward the Remain camp. The FTSE 100 closed at 6,338.10, up more than 1.2% for the session, while GBP/USD eclipsed 1.49 on Thursday, reaching its highest level since Christmas Day. A vote paving the way for the U.K. to leave the European Union could weigh on the earnings of leading energy companies if travel arrangements become more expensive for oil workers abroad. Some economists also fear a Brexit could tip the euro zone into recession, dampening demand for oil. Elsewhere, investors continued to digest a lower than expected U.S. inventory draw last week which briefly pushed brent futures below $50 a barrel over the previous session. On Wednesday, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said that crude inventories fell by 0.9 million barrels last week for the week ending on June 17, defying expectations for a 5.22 million barrel draw by the American Petroleum Institute. Meanwhile, crude production fell by 39,000 barrels per day to 8.677 million bpd, falling for the 21st time over the last 22 weeks.  
