Title: NYMEX crude weaker as China trade February trade slumps
Date: 20160307
Content:
Investing.com - Crude dropped in Asia as China February trade data came in weaker than expected with a larger hit than expected from Chinese New Year holidays. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for April delivery dropped 1.21% to $37.34 a barrel. In China, trade data showed exports slumped 25.4% in February year-on-year, well below the 12.5% drop expected, and imports declined 13.8%, also below the 10% drop seen for a trade balance surplus of $32.59 billion, far short of the $50.15 billion expected. China is a key oil importer globally. "We suspect that the drop in export growth largely reflects seasonal distortions due to annual shifts in the timing of Chinese New Year," Capital Economics said in a note to clients. "In 2015, the holiday fell unusually late which meant that more of the pre-holiday rush to meet orders and less of the post holiday disruptions took place in February, causing exports to jump 48.9% y/y. This will have provided an unflattering base for comparison for last month’s figures. This base effect should reverse this month – exports fell 14.60% y/y in March 2015 – and result in a sharp rebound in export growth." Earlier in Japan, a busy data day sees the current account for January come in at an unadjusted surplus of ¥521 billion, narrower than the surplus of ¥719 billion seen As well, fourth quarter GDP dropped 0.3%, less than the fall of 0.4% quarter-on-quarter seen and down 1.1% year-on-year, less than the 1.5% drop expected. Later Tuesday, the American Petroleum Institute will release its estimate of crude and refined product stockpiles last week. On Wednesday, more closely-watched data from the U.S. Department of Energy is due. Overnight, crude futures surged more than 5% on Monday, after a report surfaced that OPEC producers are privately crafting a strategy to stabilize the price of oil at $50 a barrel. U.S. crude futures hit their highest level since their first session of the new year. Since falling to 13-year lows in mid-February, WTI crude has rallied more than 30% amid mounting speculation of an imminent production freeze by OPEC, the world's largest oil cartel. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude for May delivery traded in a broad range between $38.88 and $41.04 a barrel, before closing at $40.80 up 2.09 or 5.38% on the day. North Brent Sea crude futures closed higher for a seventh straight session and the ninth time in the last 10 trading days. After briefly falling below $30 a barrel on February 11, brent futures have also soared by more than 28%. Oil prices extended considerable 8% gains from last week, amid heavy short covering. As a result, both the U.S. and international benchmark of crude are trading near 2016 highs. Speaking exclusively with Reuters, Gary Ross the executive chairman of the New York-based consultancy PIRA, cautiously advised that oil prices may have bottomed at last month's lows below $30 a barrel. Crude futures last topped $50 last October, following two extended downturns in 2015. In recent weeks, crude prices have rebounded amid reports that Russia, Saudi Arabia and two other OPEC producers could agree to cap output at their respective levels from January. "They want $50 oil, this is going to become the new anchor for global oil prices," Ross told Reuters. "While it may not be an official target price, you’ll hear them saying it. They’re trying to give the market an anchor." Despite Ross' comments, energy traders are still looking for signals that a record-high supply glut could abate before prices continue to rally even further. Over the last month and a half U.S. crude production has fallen steadily, decreasing in each of the last six weeks. As a result, output has dipped below 9.1 million barrels per day for the first time in 2016. At the same time, U.S. oil rigs fell by eight to 392 for the week ending on Feb. 26, moving lower for the 11th consecutive week. With the declines, the rig count fell to its lowest level since Dec. 4, 2009 and one away from an all-time record low. Major reductions in the number of oil rigs nationwide typically provide lagging indications that production is about to level off. Meanwhile, production in Russia and Saudi Arabia remains near-record monthly highs above 10 million bpd. 
