Title: Gold slides to session lows as dollar soars on Draghi remarks
Date: 20160121
Content:
Investing.com - Gold futures fell to the lowest levels of the session in North America trade on Thursday, as the dollar surged against the euro after European Central Bank President Mario Draghi signaled more easing was possible in the coming months. The euro fell almost 1% against the dollar, while the dollar index, which measures the greenback's strength against a basket of other major currencies, jumped 0.65% to 99.81, the highest since December 3. European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said he expects rates at present or lower levels for an extended period of time. He added that downside risks have increased and the central bank could reconsider its policy stance at its next meeting in March. Earlier in the day, the ECB kept its benchmark interest rate at a record-low 0.05%, in line with market expectations. The central bank also held its deposit facility rate unchanged at -0.30% and left its marginal lending at 0.30%. Market players shrugged off more disappointing U.S. economic data. The number of people who filed for unemployment assistance in the U.S. rose to the highest level since April last week, according to the U.S. Department of Labor. A separate report showed that manufacturing activity in the Philadelphia-region contracted for the second straight month in January, the latest indication that growth stalled in the fourth quarter. Gold for February delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange dropped $10.00, or 0.9%, to trade at $1,096.20 a troy ounce by 13:55GMT, or 8:55AM ET. A day earlier, gold rallied to $1,109.90, the most since January 8, as collapsing oil prices and heavy losses in global equity markets underpinned demand for assets perceived as safer. Also on the Comex, silver futures for March delivery lost 22.5 cents, or 1.59%, to trade at $13.93 a troy ounce during morning hours in London. Elsewhere in metals trading, copper prices inched up, but remained not far from seven-year lows as ongoing worries over global economic growth weighed. Copper is down nearly 8% so far this year as investors slashed holdings of the red metal amid persistent worries over an economic slowdown in China. The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for nearly 45% of world consumption. 
