Title: Gold holds near highest since November amid Fed uncertainty
Date: 20160128
Content:
Investing.com - Gold futures held near the prior session’s three-month peak in Europe trade on Thursday, after the Federal Reserve failed to offer clues on the timing of future rate hikes in its policy statement. As expected, the Fed kept interest rates unchanged at the conclusion of its policy meeting on Wednesday and said it was "closely monitoring" global economic and financial developments. Fed policymakers added that the economy was still on track for moderate growth and a stronger labor market, but warned that inflation will remain low in the near-term. Market players viewed Wednesday’s policy statement as slightly dovish. Fed funds futures, used by investors to place bets on central-bank policy, forecast a 29% likelihood of a rate increase at the Fed’s March meeting, according to data from CME Group (O:CME), down from 34% ahead the Fed’s statement on Wednesday. Traders are anticipating just one more rate hike this year, most likely in July, compared with four according to Fed policymakers' guidance. A gradual path to higher rates is seen as less of a threat to gold prices than a swift series of increases. Gold for February delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange tacked on $1.90, or 0.17%, to trade at $1,117.70 a troy ounce by 8:00GMT, or 3:00AM ET. A day earlier, gold rose to $1,128.00, the most since November 3. Prices of the precious metal are up more than 5% so far this year as investors sought refuge from turmoil in global equity markets. Gold is often seen as an alternative currency in times of global economic uncertainty and a refuge from financial risk. Also on the Comex, silver futures for March delivery shed 5.4 cents, or 0.37%, to trade at $14.38 a troy ounce during morning hours in London. Prices jumped to $14.58 on Wednesday, the highest since December 7. Elsewhere in metals trading, copper edged higher to trade near a three-week high as expectations for fresh central bank stimulus in Europe and Japan supported demand for growth-linked assets. Despite recent gains, copper is down nearly 3% so far this year as investors slashed holdings of the red metal amid persistent worries over an economic slowdown in China. The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for nearly 45% of world consumption. 
