Title: Florida resident ordered to pay $2.4 million fine in metals scheme
Date: 20160620
Content:
Investing.com -- The U.S. Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) announced on Monday that a federal judge has granted a motion for entry of final default judgment order against a Florida resident and three of his companies, requiring him to pay fines totaling $2.4 million for engaging in an off-exchange precious metals scheme. Under the order, judge Beth Bloom of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida imposed a civil monetary penalty of $1.838 million against Todd Owen Marshall and three of his companies, Harvard Assets, LLC, Harvard International Trading, Inc. and London Assets, Inc. The magistrate also ordered Marshall to pay disgorgement of $612,892, while enforcing permanent registration and trading bans. Last September, the CFTC filed a complaint charging Marshall with engaging in illegal, off-exchange transactions in precious metals on a margin or financed basis. Marshall also completed the transactions, according to the CFTC, without registering with the Commission as a Futures Commission Merchant (FCM), a provision of the Commodity Exchange Act (CEA). For a 10-month period beginning in July, 2011, Marshall solicited at least 42 retail customers, according to the CFTC, to engage in at least 241 financed precious metal transactions, representing a total value of more than $3.6 million in physical commodities such as gold and silver. As a result of the transactions, Harvard International collected at least $534,226 in commissions from the customers. Furthermore, from a five-month period through April, 2012, Marshall solicited more than a dozen customers in leveraged precious metals transactions, according to the CFTC, representing a total value of $693,000. Specifically, Marshall failed to deliver the physical commodities through his three companies or through precious metals wholesalers, Hunter Wise Commodities and the Worth Group, two of its primary suppliers. In May, 2014, Hunter Wise Commodities, LLC, was ordered to pay $55 million by federal regulators for falsely telling their customers that it sold physical commodities. The Worth Group, owner Andrew Wilshire and his sister Eugenia Mildner were ordered to pay $2.5 million in sanctions by the CFTC in February for taking part in an off-exchange metals scheme. Harvard Assets and London Assets conducted the transactions through Hunter Wise Commodities, while Harvard International engaged in business with the Worth Group, Law 360 reported. Under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, off-exchange transactions are illegal unless they result in the actual delivery of metal within 28 days. The CFTC said in a statement that disgorgement orders may not result in the recovery of money because the defendants may not have sufficient assets or funds to cover the penalties.
