Title: Crude rallies 2%, as strong inventory build lower than investors feared
Date: 20160127
Content:
Investing.com -- U.S. crude futures pared early losses, closing up by more than 3% on Wednesday, as a considerable inventory stockpile did not surge as high as some investors feared, following a massive build from the American Petroleum Institute hours earlier. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for March delivery traded in a broad range between $30.14 and $32.58 a barrel, before settling at $32.30, up 0.86 or 2.72% on the day. Following losses of at least 5% on consecutive sessions early last week, U.S. crude futures have closed higher in four of the last five trading days. On Monday, the front month contract for WTI crude slumped nearly $2 a barrel, halting a two-day winning streak when Texas light, sweet futures surged more than 15%. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for April delivery wavered between $31.61 and $34.32 a barrel, before closing at $33.92, up 1.36 or 4.22% on the session. North Sea brent crude futures are still down approximately 7% in January, remaining near their lowest levels since 2003. Both the international and U.S. benchmarks of crude have lingered near 12-year lows throughout the month, amid a glut of oversupply on global energy markets. On Wednesday morning, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said in its Weekly Petroleum Status Report that U.S. commercial crude oil inventories for the week ending on January 22, increased by 8.4 million barrels from the previous week. At 494.9 million barrels, U.S. crude oil inventories remain near levels not seen for this time of year in at least the last 80 years. Total motor gasoline inventories also increased by 3.5 million barrels last week, extending sharp gains from the previous two weeks when gasoline stockpiles surged by nearly 20 million barrels. Last week's significant build still pales to the figure reported by the API on Tuesday evening when the institute said weekly stockpiles soared by 11.4 million barrels, marking one of its strongest one-week moves since 1996. Many analysts attribute the spike to seasonal increases by refineries, which typically build up its inventories in the winter months to prepare for the summer driving season. By comparison, U.S. crude stockpiles also increased by more than 8 million barrels last year in the third week of January, representing a weekly gain of more than 2.2%. In 2015, during a six-week period ending on February 27, U.S. crude inventories soared by nearly 10%. Investors also continued to digest reports that OPEC and Russia may consider to work collaboratively in order to slash output in an effort to stem the downturn in prices. Production among Saudi Arabia and Russia, two of the largest oil powers in the world, remains near record-highs. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, fell slightly on Tuesday to 98.97, down 0.11% on the session. The index remains near 12-month highs from December, when it eclipsed 100.00. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates.
