Title: Gold eases from 2-week highs, amid continued rate hike uncertainty
Date: 20160607
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold eased from two-week highs on Tuesday in spite of a stronger dollar, as investors continued to react to abstruse comments from Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen on the strength of the global economy and the possibility of a summer interest rate hike. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, Gold for August delivery traded between $1,237.00 and $1,249.05 an ounce before settling at $1,245.35, down $2.05 or 0.16%. Gold has rallied somewhat from a prolonged slump late last month when the yellow metal briefly dipped below $1,200 to fall to a three-month trough. Since the start of the year, gold futures are still up by approximately 15% holding onto gains from the strongest first quarter of a year in more than a decade. Gold likely gained support at $1,125.00, the low from February 3 and was met with resistance at $1,304.40, the high from May 2. Gold closed relatively flat in Tuesday's session as equities worldwide surged in response to Yellen's final public comments before next week's critical Fed meeting. Addressing a luncheon audience at a World Affairs Council event in Philadelphia on Monday, Yellen omitted any reference to the timing of the Fed's next interest rate hike. Yellen's stance represented a shift from her position less than two weeks ago when she sent strong indications that the Fed appeared ready to resume tightening of its monetary policy cycle. Following last December's historic interest rate hike by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), the Fed has left its benchmark Federal Funds Rate at a targeted range between 0.25 and 0.50% at each of its three meetings this year. Yellen's comments in late-May appeared to suggest that the FOMC could be ready to raise short-term interest rates on multiple occasions before the end of the year, as the labor market and inflation showed signs of firming. At its FOMC meeting in March, the committee's median projections forecasted the potential for two rate increases of 25 basis points each in 2016. But last week the domestic labor market suffered an unforeseen shock when the U.S. Department of Labor reported that the economy added 38,000 in May, the fewest number of monthly jobs in nearly six years. While maintaining her signature calm disposition, Yellen downplayed the unsettling developments arguing that it is not constructive to attach too much significance to one report. Yellen also emphasized that a potential "leave" vote by U.K. voters in a controversial June 23 referendum could pose serious repercussions to the world economy. Yellen's comments have done little to sway market sentiments. The CME Group's (NASDAQ:CME) FedWatch tool lowered the probability of a July rate hike to 24.8% on Tuesday from 25.8% one session earlier. The market sees virtually no chance of a rate hike next week when the FOMC convenes for the two-day meeting on June 14-15. The current probability of a June rate hike fell to 1.9% on Tuesday from 3.8% during the previous day. Investors who are bullish on Gold are in favor of a gradual tightening of monetary policy by the Fed over the current cycle. Gold, which is not attached to interest rates, struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, fell more than 0.15% to an intraday low of 93.75. The index has crashed by more than 5% since early-December. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Silver for July delivery fell 0.072 or 0.44% to $16.375 an ounce. Copper for July delivery plunged 0.069 or 3.23% to $2.049 a pound.
