Title: Gold flat as ECB, OPEC stand pat at closely-watched meetings
Date: 20160602
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold inched down amid a relatively flat dollar, as the European Central Bank and OPEC ended a pair of closely-watched meetings on Thursday without enacting any major policy changes. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, Gold for August delivery traded between $1,212.00 and 1,219.90 an ounce, before settling at $1,213.15, down $1.55 or 0.13% on the session. Gold is coming off its worst month of the year when the precious metal slid more than 5%, as investors have digested strong suggestions from the Federal Reserve that it will raise short-term interest rates at some point this summer. Nevertheless, gold is still up by more than 14% since the start of the year, holding onto gains from the strongest first quarter of a year in more than a decade. Gold likely gained support at $1,125.00, the low from February 3 and was met with resistance at $1,304.40, the high from May 2. In Vienna, the ECB's Governing Council left interest rates unchanged ahead of the launch of a highly-anticipated corporate bond buying program next week, as inflation continues to remain stubbornly low. ECB president Mario Draghi opened his press conference on Thursday by noting that the Governing Council expects interest rates to remain low for a lengthy period, but did not add whether it plans to extend a comprehensive quantitative easing program beyond next March. While Draghi left the possibility open for further easing measures, he reiterated the ECB's main goal is to make sure that long-term inflation returns back toward its targeted objective. Economists from the ECB raised their growth forecasts in the euro area by 0.2 to 1.6% for 2016, while leaving their projection for 2017 growth unchanged at 1.7%. "Monetary policy is focused on maintaining price stability over the medium term and its accommodative stance supports economic activity. As emphasized repeatedly by the Governing Council, and as again strongly echoed in both European and international policy discussions, in order to reap the full benefits from our monetary policy measures, other policy areas must contribute much more decisively, both at the national and at the European levels," Draghi said. "Structural policies are essential, given continued high structural unemployment and low potential output growth in the euro area. Structural reforms are necessary in all euro area countries, although specific reform needs differ across the individual economies." The ECB's decision could prompt the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) to raise short-term interest rates when it meets next on June 14-15. Some hawkish members of the Fed have been hesitant to lift rates as the ECB and the Bank of Japan continue to maintain a negative interest rate policy. The FOMC has left the target range of its benchmark Federal Funds Rate at a level between 0.25 and 0.50% in each of its first three meetings this year. In December, the FOMC abandoned a seven-year zero interest rate policy by lifting rates for the first time in nearly a decade. Any rate hikes by the Fed this year are viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. Also in Vienna, OPEC ended its semi-annual meeting without reaching an agreement to cap its production ceiling. While Saudi Arabia pledged to resist the temptation of flooding global energy markets with a glut of supply, Iran offered few hints that it will slow production in the coming months. Crude prices have fallen sharply since OPEC allowed production to exceed 30 million barrels per day in November, 2014, leading to a prolonged rout in global oil prices. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, rose more than 0.10% to an intraday high of 95.55. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold and crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Silver for July delivery gained 0.093 or 0.58% to $16.020 an ounce. Copper for July delivery lost 0.004 or 0.19% to $2.069 a pound.
