Title: Gold prices wobble ahead of more Fed speakers
Date: 20160404
Content:
Investing.com - Gold futures swung between gains and losses in North American trade on Monday, as investors looked ahead to more FOMC member speeches later in the day to further judge the balance of opinion among policymakers on the prospect of further rate hikes. Boston Fed President Eric Rosengren is due to speak at 14:15GMT, or 10:15AM ET, while Minneapolis Fed President Neel Kashkari and Dallas Fed President Rob Kaplan are scheduled to speak after the U.S. market closes. Gold for June delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange dipped 50 cents, or 0.04%, to trade at $1,223.00 a troy ounce by 13:06GMT, or 9:06AM ET, after hitting a session low of $1,216.00. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, fell 0.1% to 94.48, after hitting highs of 94.83 earlier in the session and re-approaching last week’s five-and-a-half month low of 94.30. On Friday, gold retreated $12.10, or 0.98%, as better than expected U.S. employment data sparked speculation the Federal Reserve could raise interest rates sooner and faster than expected. According to the U.S. Labor Department, the economy added 215,000 jobs last month, exceeding expectations for a gain of 205,000. Average hourly earnings increased by a more-than-expected 0.3%, while the unemployment rate ticked up to 5.0% from an eight-year low of 4.9%, as more people entered the labor force. Investors also digested hawkish comments from Cleveland Fed President Loretta Mester. In prepared remarks, she said that the Fed should still raise interest rates gradually this year given the economy's resilience. Losses were limited amid the view that the Fed will still remain cautious on interest rate hikes this year. Fed Chair Janet Yellen said last week the U.S. central bank should proceed only cautiously as it looks to raise interest rates, pushing back against a handful of colleagues who suggested another move may be just around the corner. A gradual path to higher rates is seen as less of a threat to gold prices than a swift series of increases. Prices of the yellow metal are up nearly 14% so far this year as expectations faded that the Fed would move to normalize interest rates due to fears over a China-led global economic slowdown. Gold is sensitive to moves in U.S. rates, as a rise would lift the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding assets such as bullion. In the week ahead, market players will be turning their attention to Wednesday’s minutes of the Federal Reserve’s latest policy meeting for fresh clues on the timing of the next U.S. rate hike. There are also more than a half-dozen Fed speakers on tap for the coming week, including comments by Fed Chair Yellen on Thursday. Also on the Comex, silver futures for May delivery inched up 3.9 cents, or 0.26%, to trade at $15.08 a troy ounce during morning hours in New York, while copper futures slid 0.3 cents, or 0.14%, to $2.160 a pound. Prices of the red metal dropped to a more than one-month low of $2.147 earlier in the day, as concerns over a slowdown in demand from top consumer China weighed. 
