Title: Gold slips as dollar bounces back; U.S. election, FOMC in the spotlight
Date: 20161031
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices edged lower during North America's session on Monday, as the U.S. dollar bounced back from Friday’s selloff, which came after the FBI said it would review more emails related to Hillary Clinton's private email use. The dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, was up 0.25% at 98.56 early Monday, rebounding from Friday's low of 98.22. A stronger U.S. dollar usually weighs on gold, as it dampens the metal's appeal as an alternative asset and makes dollar-priced commodities more expensive for holders of other currencies. Gold for December delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange dipped $2.95, or 0.23%, to $1,273.85 a troy ounce by 8:35AM ET (12:35GMT). On Friday, the yellow metal climbed to a four-week high of $1,285.40 as investors were rattled by news that the FBI is planning to review more emails related to Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton's private server, just over a week before the election. The revelation could damage the chances of the Democrat candidate, fueling worries about a surprise election outcome. An ABC/Washington Post tracking survey released Sunday gave Clinton 46% support from likely voters, to Trump’s 45%. Clinton was ahead by 12 points a week earlier. The market is also keeping an eye on the outcome of the Federal Reserve's two-day policy meeting, which begins on Tuesday. The U.S. central bank is unlikely to make a move this week, as it is too close to the election with many market participants instead expecting a hike in December. Traders are currently pricing in a less than 10% chance of a rate hike this week, according to Investing.com's Fed Rate Monitor Tool. For December, odds stood at around 75%. Also on the Comex, silver futures for December delivery tacked on 1.1 cents, or 0.06%, to $17.80 a troy ounce during morning hours in New York, while copper futures eased up 0.2 cents, or 0.07%, to $2.195 a pound, the most since September 30. A recent raft of positive economic data from around the world underlined optimism over the health of the global economy. Copper is sensitive to the economic growth outlook because of its widespread uses across industries. 
