Title: Gold reaches 3-month high, as China stocks dip below last year&#39;s lows
Date: 20160126
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold extended sharp gains from the previous session on Tuesday surging to three-month highs, as equities in China plunged to their lowest level in more than a year exacerbating concerns on a potential global recession. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for February delivery traded between $1,107.20 and $1,120.10 an ounce before settling at $1,118.80, up 13.40 or 1.21% on the session. Gold has closed higher in each of the last three sessions and five of the last seven. With global stock markets on pace for one of their worst opening months to a year since the depths of the Financial Crisis, gold has jumped more than 5% in January. Gold likely gained support at $1,046.20, the low from December 3 and was met with resistance at $1,138.70, the high from Nov. 2. In overnight trading, continued declines in oil weighed on Chinese stocks, as the Shanghai Composite index plummeted more than 6% to 2,749.79, its lowest level since December, 2014. The index suffered its worst one-day loss since the People's Bank of China removed a circuit breaker apparatus, which analysts blamed for triggering a series of major sell-offs at the start of the month. Investors continued to digest bearish comments from billionaire investor George Soros on further weakness in China after the world's second-largest economy reported its slowest pace of economic growth last year in a quarter century. At a closely-watched speech last week in Davos, Switzerland, Soros disclosed that he is taking a large short position in Asian currencies, amid worries that the downturn in China could create spillover effects into the global economy at-large. "A hard landing (in China) is practically unavoidable," Soros said in an interview with Bloomberg at the World Economic Forum. "I'm not expecting it, I'm observing it." Hoping to prevent additional capital outflows and devaluations of the yuan, the chief of China's National Bureau of Statistics fired back, dismissing Soros' comments as coming from only a "single voice". The People's Daily, the Communist Party's main newspaper, also had harsh words for the famed philanthropist, describing any challenge to Chinese currency "as futile." Separately, China's Central Commission for Discipline Inspection announced on Tuesday that Mr. Wang is facing serious discipline violations without specifying the allegations. Gold is viewed as a safe-haven asset for investors in periods of severe economic instability. Investors await the completion of the Federal Open Market Committee's two-day January meeting on Wednesday for further signals on the U.S. central bank's path over the next 18 months, as it embarks on its first tightening cycle in more than a decade. The interest rate decision will be the FOMC's first since it voted unanimously to abandon a seven-year Zero Interest Rate Policy at a historic meeting in December. The Fed is widely expected to leave its benchmark Federal Funds Rate unchanged at a level between 0.25 and 0.50%. The CME Group's (O:CME) Fed Watch tool placed the implied probability of a 25 basis point hike on Wednesday of 13.1%, up from 11.9% a session earlier. Any interest rate hikes this year are viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, reached an intraday high of 99.51 before turning negative in U.S. afternoon trading at 99.19, down more than 0.10% on the session. The index remains near 12-month highs from December, when it eclipsed 100.00. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Silver for March delivery gained 0.271 or 1.90% to 14.510 an ounce. Copper for March delivery added 0.040 or 1.99% to 2.038 a pound. 
