Title: NYMEX crude last quoted higher as API estimates parsed
Date: 20160412
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil was quoted higher in early Asia on Wednesday as investors parsed U.S. industry estimates on stockpiles. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for May delivery was last quoted up 3.32% to $41.70 a barrel. The American Petroleum Institute said that crude oil stock rose 6.223 million barrels last week, while distillates stocks fell by 530,000 barrels and gasoline stock by 1.58 million barrels. The drop in gasoline stocks as the summer driving season approaches in the U.S. will be seen as bullish. On Wednesday, the U.S. Department of Energy releases its own figures on the same data. In China, March trade data is due with a surplus of $30.85 billion seen, narrower than the $32.59 billion seen last month. Exports are seen up 2.5% year-on-year, while imports likely dropped 10.2%. Overnight, crude futures surged to fresh 2016-yearly highs on Tuesday, extending sharp gains from the previous two sessions, amid strong indications that Russia and Saudi Arabia have reached a consensus on a comprehensive production freeze ahead of a highly-anticipated meeting over the weekend in Qatar. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for June delivery wavered between $42.56 and $44.80 a barrel, before closing at $44.62, up 1.79 or 4.18% on the trading day. Much like its U.S. counterpart, North Brent Sea futures have jumped nearly 20% over the last week and 13% since last Friday. Since falling to their lowest levels in more than a decade in mid-February, both the international and U.S. domestic benchmarks of crude have jumped by more than 35%. Crude staged its latest rally after reports circulated from Russia news outlet Interfax that Russia and Saudi Arabia reached an accord on a deal in which both major producers will cap their daily output at near-record levels. Citing diplomatic sources, the Russian news agency also report that Saudi Arabia's decision will also not be dependent on any resolution by Iran to take part in the negotiations. Previously, officials from the kingdom have maintained that it will only cap production if Iran follows suit. Iran oil minister Bijan Zangeneh has described the Saudi position as "ridiculous." Iranian officials are resistant to any deal that will force the Persian Gulf nation to freeze output at its current level, as it continues to ramp up production toward pre-sanction levels from 2007. Crude has rebounded sharply from mid-February lows since Russia, Saudi Arabia and two other OPEC producers agreed to the framework of an OPEC-Non OPEC production freeze in an effort to bolster persistently low prices. Despite the recent upswing, oil is still down more than 60% from its June, 2014 level when it peaked at $115 a barrel. More than 15 major producers are expected to attend Sunday's meeting in Doha. Elsewhere, energy traders reacted to a bullish report from the U.S. Energy Department on the heightened possibility for increased demand growth before the end of the year. In its latest Short Term Energy Outlook (STEO), the Energy Information Administration said it expects global demand growth to increase by 10,000 barrels per day for the remainder of 2016 to 1.16 million bpd. By the end of 2017, the EIA anticipates that demand growth worldwide will increase to 1.33 million bpd, up slightly from previous estimates of 1.21 million bpd. In terms of supply, the EIA expects U.S. average production to hover around 8.6 million bpd this year before falling to 8.0 million bpd in 2017. For both years, the EIA lowered their supply forecasts by 0.1 million bpd. Last year, U.S. average output eclipsed 9.3 million bpd, the highest level in more than 40 years. 
