Title: Shell officials working to contain leak responsible for Gulf oil spill
Date: 20160513
Content:
Investing.com -- Royal Dutch Shell A (NYSE:RDSa) said on Friday afternoon that the company is engaged in efforts to limit a massive spill a day earlier that caused more than 2,000 barrels of oil to gush into the Gulf of Mexico. Earlier on Friday, the U.S. Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSSE) continued their investigation into Thursday's spill, approximately 97 miles south of Port Fourchon, Louisiana, as officials worked to determine the source of the release. On Thursday afternoon, Shell officials said a company helicopter discovered a 26-mile sheen in an area commonly known as Glider Field, a group of four subsea wells located in Green Canyon, Block 248. Once reported, Shell curbed the flow from the wells into its Brutus production platform, which is located in 2,900 feet of water. In total, an estimated 88,200 gallons of oil were released from Shell's subsea well-head flow line, according to the U.S. Coast Guard. "The likely cause of the sheen is a release of oil from subsea infrastructure and in response, we have isolated the leak and shut-in production," Shell said in a statement. "No release is acceptable, and safety remains our highest priority as we respond to this incident." The Marine Spill Response Corporation and Clean Gulf Associates were contracted by Shell to commence clean up and containment operations, the Coast Guard said in a statement. In addition, an aircrew from the Coast Guard's Aviation Training Center is conducting an aerial assessment of the site and surrounding areas, according to the Coast Guard. Meanwhile, officials from the BSSE said it remains in close communication with the Coast Guard, which is serving as the Federal On Scene Coordinator in the incident. "BSEE is committed to ensuring environmentally responsible oil and gas operations on the Outer Continental Shelf," BSEE Director Brian Salerno said in a statement. "BSEE's full investigative resources have been deployed to identify the cause and assess any potential improvements needed to subsea infrastructure technology." In March, attorneys from the U.S. Department of Justice asked a federal judge in New Orleans to approve a $20 billion settlement with  BP  PLC (LON:BP) last year for damages related to the April, 2010, Deepwater Horizon accident. During the incident, a blowout of a Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico claimed the lives of 11 people and caused the largest oil spill in U.S. history.
