Title: Gold prices dip slightly in Asia as G-20 eyed for policy coordination
Date: 20160904
Content:
Investing.com - Gold drifted lower in Asia on Monday with comments from the G-20 summit in China eyed for global coordination on monetary and fiscal policies. Gold for December delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange fell 0.12% to $1,326.50 a troy ounce. Elsewhere, copper futures for December delivery edge up 0.10% to $2.080 a pound. Coming up this week, the European Central Bank meeting on Thursday will be closely watched for a monetary stimulus to boost inflation and prop up the economy, while the U.S. reports service sector growth in a shortened trading week with the markets shut on Monday for a holiday. China will release trade and inflation data amid ongoing concerns over the health of the world's second biggest economy. Last week, gold prices rallied on Friday, as weaker than expected U.S. employment data diminished the likelihood that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates at its policy meeting later this month. For the week, the yellow metal ended with a slight gain of 80 cents, or 0.06%, as markets continued to speculate over the timing of the next Fed rate hike. The U.S. economy added 151,000 jobs in August, disappointing expectations for an increase of 180,000, the Labor Department said. The number of jobs created increased by 275,000 in July, whose figure was revised from a previously estimated 255,000 gain. The unemployment rate remained unchanged at 4.9% this month, confounding expectations for a downtick to 4.8%. The report also showed that average hourly earnings rose 0.1% in August, below expectations for a 0.2% increase. The disappointing data dampened expectations for a near-term rate hike, as Fed officials recently indicated that the pace of interest rate increases will be data-dependent. According to Investing.com's Fed Rate Monitor Tool, investors are pricing in a 21% chance of a rate hike at the Fed's September 20-21 meeting, down from 27% ahead of the employment data. The precious metal is sensitive to moves in U.S. rates, which lift the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding assets such as bullion, while boosting the dollar in which it is priced.  
