Title: Gold futures struggle for direction with dollar, global stocks in focus
Date: 20160118
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices struggled for direction in quiet trade on Monday, as market players continued to monitor movements in the U.S. dollar and global stock markets. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, rose 0.1% to 99.08. Meanwhile, global equity markets were lower as oil prices fell below the $28-level to hit a fresh 13-year low, adding to fears over the outlook for global growth. Gold for February delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange inched up 30 cents, or 0.03%, to trade at $1,091.00 a troy ounce by 09:55GMT, or 4:55AM ET. On Friday, gold surged $17.10, or 1.59%, as retreating oil prices and equity markets underpinned demand for assets perceived as safer. Also on the Comex, silver futures for March delivery tacked on 3.4 cents, or 0.24%, to trade at $13.93 a troy ounce during morning hours in London. Elsewhere in metals trading, copper bounced back from a new seven-year low on Monday, but gains remained limited amid ongoing concerns over the health of the global economy. The red metal is sensitive to the economic growth outlook because of its widespread uses across industries. Prices of the red metal plunged 7.9 cents, or 3.9%, last week, as an ongoing meltdown on China’s stock market rattled investor sentiment. Copper is down nearly 8.5% in 2016 as investors slashed holdings of the red metal amid persistent worries over an economic slowdown in China. China is scheduled to release data on fourth quarter gross domestic product on Tuesday. The report is expected to show the world's second largest economy grew 6.8% in the final three months of last year, slowing from growth of 6.9% in the preceding quarter. The Asian nation will also publish data on December industrial production, fixed asset investment and retail sales along with the GDP report. China is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for nearly 45% of world consumption. Trade is expected to be light on Monday, as U.S. stock and bond markets will remain closed for the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday. 
