Title: Gold gains in Asia on continued risk aversion on Middle East tensions
Date: 20160104
Content:
Investing.com - Gold ticked mildly higher in Asia on Tuesday on continued risk aversion with events in the Middle East in focus. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for February delivery inched up 0.02% to $1,075.40 a troy ounce. Silver futures for March delivery gained 0.35% to $13.875 an ounce. Copper futures for March delivery rose 0.12% to $2.084 a pound. Overnight, gold kicked off 2016 with a resounding opening to the new year, as investors reacted to a move by Saudi Arabia to cut commercial ties with Iran and weaker than expected manufacturing data in China. Gold surged in overnight, Asian trading as traders digested news of mounting geopolitical instability in the Middle East, after a swarm of protesters stormed the Saudi embassy over the weekend in response to the kingdom's execution of a prominent Shiite cleric. Relations between Saudi Arabia and Iran have soured since the execution of cleric Nimr al-Nimr and 46 others on Saturday for reportedly speaking out against the Saudi royal family. The aftershocks were felt in the first trading session of the year, as Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates and Sudan joined Riyadh by severing or curtailing ties with Iran. Citing Iran's "blatant and dangerous interference," in the region, Bahrain decided on Monday to cut off diplomatic relations with Tehran. Saudi Arabia's civil aviation authority, meanwhile, said it has canceled all flights to and from Iran, the Associated Press reported. Gold is viewed as a safe-haven for investors in periods of mounting geopolitical instability. Gold prices fell back slightly, hours later after China reported weaker than expected manufacturing data last month, sparking fresh concerns of slowing growth in the world's second-largest economy. In December, the China Caixin PMI index fell by 0.4 points to 48.2, considerably below analysts' forecasts for a 49.0 reading. Any reading below 50 provides indications of contraction in the manufacturing sector. "Data suggested that client demand was weak both at home and abroad, with new export business falling for the first time in three months in December," said Markit, which conducts the survey, in a release. "As a result, manufacturers continued to trim their staff numbers and reduce their purchasing activity in line with lower production requirements." Worldwide commodity prices slumped to multi-year lows throughout 2015, as demand for metals weakened substantially, amid China's transition from a planned to consumer-led economy.  
