Title: Natural gas futures - weekly outlook: July 4 - 8
Date: 20160703
Content:
Investing.com - U.S. natural gas futures rallied to the highest since May 2015 on Friday, as hot summer temperatures across most parts of the U.S. raised expectations for power generation demand to meet air conditioning needs. Updated weather forecasting models suggested that temperatures may be hotter than normal throughout most of the contiguous U.S. from July 8 through July 12. Demand for natural gas tends to rise in the summer months as warmer temperatures increase the need for gas-fired electricity to power air conditioning. Natural gas for August delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange jumped to $2.998 per million British thermal units, a level not seen in 13 months. It settled at $2.987 by close of trade, up 6.3 cents, or 2.15%. For the week, natural gas futures soared 35.1 cents, or 12.21%, the sixth straight weekly gain, as traders bet that warmer weather will help to ease a glut of supplies in the U.S. The U.S. Energy Information Administration said in its weekly report that natural gas storage in the U.S. rose by 37 billion cubic feet last week, below forecasts for an increase of 45 billion. That compared with builds of 62 billion cubic feet in the prior week, 73 billion a year earlier and a five-year average of 78 billion cubic feet. Total U.S. natural gas storage stood at 3.140 trillion cubic feet, 18.5% higher than levels at this time a year ago and 20.3% above the five-year average for this time of year. A rally for natural gas this time of year isn't unusual. Prices are up nearly 50% since late May as expectations have grown that hot summer weather will lead to heavy demand. Gas use typically hits a seasonal low with spring's mild temperatures, before warmer weather increases demand for gas-fired electricity generation to power air conditioning. In the week ahead, market players will be focusing on weekly U.S. storage data on Thursday for fresh supply-and-demand signals. Some analysts believe this week’s storage addition will be less than usual for this time of year due to a recent burst of warmer-than-normal summer weather across most parts of the U.S. 
