Title: Gold prices fall in Asia on profit-taking after overnight surge
Date: 20160802
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices fell on Wednesday in Asia on profit-taking as the yellow metal benefits from continued easy global monteary policies. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for December delivery eased 0.17% to $1,370.25 a troy ounce. Silver futures for September delivery fell 0.14% to $20.672 a troy ounce, while copper futures for September delivery were flat at $2.207 a pound. Overnight, gold surged on Tuesday, soaring more than $10 an ounce to test 28-month highs, as the dollar slumped to its lowest level since late-June and inflation remained relatively weak, potentially delaying the timing of the Federal Reserve's latest interest rate hike. Gold has now closed higher in six consecutive sessions. On Tuesday morning, the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) said Personal consumption expenditures (PCE) rose by 0.1% in June, slightly below consensus estimates of a 0.2% increase following a gain of 0.2% over the previous month. The gains are reflected by an uptick in spending for gas, electricity and healthcare services, which were partially offset by a reduction in spending in new vehicles. Over the last 12 months, the PCE Price Index has increased by 0.9% -- remaining unchanged from the year-over-year gains exhibited in May. The Core PCE Index, which strips out volatile food and energy prices, inched up by 0.1% in June, in line with consensus estimates and below May's 0.2% monthly increase. On an annual basis, Core personal consumption expenditures are up by 1.6%, unchanged from May's level. At last week's Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) July monetary policy meeting, the Committee said market-based measures of inflation continue to remain low, as the Core PCE index hovers below its long-term targeted objective of 2%. While delivering a speech on monetary policy and the global economy in Beijing, Dallas Fed president Rob Kaplan urged the U.S. central bank to raise rates in a "gradual and patient manner," amid continuing challenges facing the U.S. economy. A day earlier, Kaplan told Bloomberg in a televised interview that a September rate hike is still on the table. Last week, the FOMC left its benchmark Federal Funds Rate unchanged at a level between 0.25 and 0.50% for a fifth consecutive meeting. Any rate hikes this year are viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete versus high-yield bearing assets in periods of rising rate environments. 
