Title: NYMEX crude gains in Asia as U.S. stockpile data aids sentiment
Date: 20160608
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices gained in Asia on Thursday as investors cheered drops reported by industry and government in U.S. stockpiles this week and looked ahead to rig count data from the U.S. as well at the end of the week. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for July delivery gained 0.68% to $51.58 a barrel. Ahead in China, CPI data for May is expected to show a 0.2% drop month-on-month for an pace of a 2.3% gain year-on-year, while producer prices are seen down 3.3% year-on-year. Overnight, crude futures pared some gains after surging to fresh 11-month highs on Wednesday, as a bullish U.S. inventory report eased some concerns related to the massive supply glut that persists throughout energy markets worldwide. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude for August delivery wavered between $51.33 and $52.55 a barrel, before closing at $52.46, up 1.02 or 1.98% on the day. At session-highs, North Sea brent futures eclipsed the $52 level for the first time since early-October. Crude prices at the London-based ICE continued to receive a boost from a conflict in Nigeria, which has led to widespread output slowdowns among major producers throughout the Southern delta region of the nation. U.S. crude futures have skyrocketed more than 90% since hitting 13-year lows at $26.05 a barrel on February 11. On Wednesday morning, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said U.S. commercial crude oil inventories decreased by 3.2 million barrels for the week ending on June 3. At 532.5 million barrels, U.S. crude oil inventories are still at historically high levels for this time of year. On the West Coast, crude stockpiles rose by 2.4 million barrels to 60.9 million, reaching its highest level since 2009. It was partially offset by a 1.4 million barrel draw at the Cushing Oil Hub in Oklahoma. Although stockpiles at the main delivery point for NYMEX oil fell to 65.6 million barrels last week, supply levels still remain near full storage capacity. Analysts expected a draw of 2.8 million barrels, following a decline of 1.36 million a week earlier. On Tuesday evening, the American Petroleum Institute reported a drop of 3.6 million barrels last week. Meanwhile, crude production nationwide increased by 10,000 barrels per day to 8.745 million bpd, halting a four-month streak of weekly declines. Over the last year, crude output in the U.S. has plummeted by nearly 1 million bpd. Last year at this time, daily production hovered around 9.6 million barrels, its highest level in more than 40 years. Further gains in oil prices were limited by slowing economic activity in China, as oil imports fell in May to their lowest level in four-months. Earlier on Wednesday, China's General Administration of Customs reported that monthly crude imports fell to 32.24 million, amid rising congestion at a main port. China is one of the world's top importers of oil from the Middle East. 
