Title: Crude futures surge 5%, amid largest U.S. inventory draw since January
Date: 20160406
Content:
Investing.com -- U.S. crude futures soared more than 5% on Wednesday, bouncing from 1-month lows, as stockpiles nationwide declined last week by their highest weekly amount since January, temporarily easing concerns related to the excessive supply glut on domestic energy markets. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for May delivery traded in a broad range between $36.44 and $37.81 before settling at $37.72, up 1.83 or 5.10% on the session. It came one session after U.S. crude futures hit a session-low of $35.24, its lowest level since March 4, amid strong indications of weakening gasoline demand nationwide. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for June delivery wavered between $38.17 and $39.89 a barrel, before closing at $39.78, up 1.91 or 5.04% on the trading day. Both the international and U.S. domestic benchmarks of crude are down approximately 4% since hitting three-month highs in late-March. On Wednesday morning, the U.S. Energy Department's Energy Information Administration (EIA) said in its Weekly Petroleum Status Report that crude inventories nationwide decreased by 4.94 million barrels for the week ending on April 1, falling sharply below consensus estimates of a build of 2.85 million barrels. While investors shifted their expectations following a  draw of 4.3 million barrels by the American Petroleum Institute on Tuesday afternoon, the considerable draw was still largely unexpected. At 529.9 million barrels, U.S. crude oil inventories are at historically high levels for this time of year. For the week, total motor gasoline inventories increased by 1.4 million barrels, while Distillate fuel inventories increased by 1.8 million barrels. At the Cushing Oil Hub, the nation's largest storage facility for crude oil, inventories increased by 375,000, one week after a draw of 272,000. Stockpiles at the facility in Oklahoma, the main delivery point for NYMEX oil, are perilously close to reaching full storage capacity at 65 million barrels. U.S. production, meanwhile, fell 14,000 barrels last week to 9.008 million barrels per day, declining to its lowest level since November, 2014. After falling for the fourth consecutive week, U.S. output is down roughly 6% from last June when it reached its highest level in more than 40 years. Crude oil has crashed more than 40% over the last 17 months, since OPEC rattled global energy markets with a strategic decision to maintain its production ceiling above 30 million barrels per day. The tactic triggered a prolonged battle with U.S. shale producers for market share, creating an excessive glut of supply worldwide. Oil prices are expected to remain in a holding pattern heading into a highly-anticipated meeting in Doha on April 17, when Russia, Saudi Arabia and two other OPEC producers could freeze production at their respective levels from January. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, fell more than 0.25% to an intraday low of 94.25, before inching back up to 94.45 in U.S. afternoon trading. The index was relatively flat following the release of the minutes from the Federal Open Market Committee's (FOMC) March meeting on Wednesday afternoon. With the slight declines, the Index remains near five-month lows. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates.  
