Title: Gold prices weaker in Asia as investors seek sidelines ahead of Fed
Date: 20160414
Content:
Investing.com - Gold dropped in Asia on Thursday with investors holding cautious ahead of the Federal Reserve review on rates later this month. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for June delivery eased 1.07% to $1,234.90 a troy ounce. Silver futures for May delivery dropped 1.41% to $16.095 a troy ounce, while copper futures fell 0.28% to $2.164 a pound. Overnight, gold fell sharply on Wednesday amid a stronger dollar, as stellar trade data in China assuaged longstanding concerns on slowing growth in the world's second-largest economy, dampening the precious metal's appeal as a safe-haven asset. Gold moved lower in overnight, Asian trading after the Chinese government reported on Wednesday that exports surged by 11.5% in March on an annual basis, defying expectations for slight gains of 2.5%. The upbeat data bolstered investor confidence, one month after Chinese exports plummeted more than 25% in dollar terms. In renminbi terms, Chinese exports soared nearly 19% on the month while imports fell mildly in March. The optimistic reading bolstered struggling metal stocks in China and triggered a short squeeze among equities in Hong Kong. As a result, the SEHK in Hong Kong closed 3% higher, while the Shanghai Composite Index ended Wednesday's session up more than 1.4%. The rally also spilled over into euro zone markets, as investors departed from their positions in safe-havens such as gold for riskier assets. In Europe, the Stoxx 600 index soared more than 2.5% to 343.06, extending its longest winning streak in more than a month, while the FTSE 100 index in the U.K. rose nearly 2% to 6,362.89, its highest closing level of 2016. The strong Chinese trade data also provided a boost to the dollar, which jumped more than 0.75% on Wednesday to an intraday high of 94.82. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, was on pace in afternoon trading for one of its strongest single sessions in six weeks. On Monday, the index dipped below 94 to hit an eight-month low. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Gold could remain in a holding pattern over the next two weeks before the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) issues its next interest rate decision on April 27. 
