Title: NYMEX crude trends weaker in Asia after weekend China industrial data
Date: 20160314
Content:
Investing.com - Crude eased in Asia on Monday as downbeat factory data from China at the weekend still offset a surprise spike in Japan core machinery orders. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in April fell 0.31% to $38.38 a barrel. In Japan, core machinery orders for January spiked 15%, well above the 3.0% gain seen month-on-month and a year-on-year gain of 8.4%, far outpacing a decline of 3.6% expected. Official data released over the weekend showed that China's factory output in the first two months of the year slowed to the weakest level since November 2008, adding to the view that the economy remains in the midst of an ongoing slowdown which will require Beijing to roll out more support in coming months. Industrial production rose by an annualized rate of 5.4% in January, below expectations for a 5.6% increase and slowing from a gain of 5.9% in the preceding month, the General Administration of Customs said on Saturday. In the week ahead, oil traders will be focusing on U.S. stockpile data on Tuesday and Wednesday for further evidence of a slowdown in production. Developments surrounding a potential deal between OPEC and non-OPEC producers to cap output will also be in focus. On Monday, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Counties will publish its monthly assessment of oil markets. Last week, oil futures rallied to fresh three-month highs on Friday, after the International Energy Agency provided indications that the prolonged rout in oil may have hit a bottom as low prices were beginning to impact production outside of OPEC. In a monthly forecast, the Paris-based IEA said that non-OPEC output would decline by 750,000 barrels per day in 2016, compared to a previous estimate of 600,000 bpd. U.S. production alone would decline by 530,000 bpd this year, it said. "There are clear signs that market forces are working their magic and higher-cost producers are cutting output," the IEA said. Oilfield services provider Baker Hughes said late Friday that the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. decreased by six last week to 386, the 12th straight weekly decline and the lowest level since 2009.There are now nearly 76% fewer rigs of all kinds from a peak of 1,609 in October 2014. A lower U.S. rig count is usually a bullish sign for oil as it signals potentially lower production in the future. Since falling to 13-year lows at $26.05 on February 11, U.S. crude futures have rebounded by approximately 35% as a decline in U.S. shale production boosted sentiment and amid the growing view that a 20-month-long market rout is finally coming to an end. Elsewhere, on the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for May delivery tacked on 34 cents, or 0.85%, on Friday to close the week at $40.39 a barrel, not far from a three-month peak of $41.47 hit on March 8. Brent futures are up by roughly 30%, since briefly dropping below $30 a barrel on February 11. Short-covering began in mid-February after Saudi Arabia and fellow OPEC members Qatar and Venezuela agreed with non-OPEC member Russia to freeze output at January levels, provided other oil exporters joined in. A meeting is planned for later this month or early next month in which producers will discuss the details of the proposed action. Iran's ISNA news agency reported on Sunday that oil minister Bijan Zanganeh said Tehran would join discussions between other producers about a possible freeze only after its own output reached pre-sanction levels of nearly four million barrels per day. Global crude production is outpacing demand following a boom in U.S. shale oil and after a decision by OPEC last year not to cut production in order to defend market share, driving down prices by more than 70% over the past 20 months.  
