Title: Gold prices ease in Asia with BoJ holding steady, Fed eyed
Date: 20160315
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices fell further in Asia on Tuesday as investors took profits ahead of central bank reviews this week with the Bank of Japan up first in holding policy steady. Gold for April delivery fell 1.21% to $1,230.00 a troy ounce. Silver futures for March delivery dropped 1.81% to $15.325 a troy ounce, while copper futures for March eased 0.58% to $2.227 a pound. As expected the Bank of Japan held policy steady, but noted the market volatility has dented confidence and the price views of consumers and business. At the January meeting, the BoJ lowered lowered the rate it charges to commercial banks that park excess reserves at the central bank to negative 0.1% in a move aimed at helping its economy stave off threats of deflation. The BoJ is ostensibly hoping to keep the yield curve as low as possible in order to assist the government with financing issues by making public sector debt more affordable. Earlier, the Reserve Bank of Australia release monetary policy meeting minutes from its March review at which it held steady at a record low 2.0% and confirmed it had room to cut rates further if needed. Overnight, gold fell sharply on Monday extending losses from late last week, as investors braced for further declines ahead of a trio of key central bank meetings later this week. A day later, the Federal Reserve will issue its latest monetary policy statement following the completion of its two-day Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) for the month of March. While the Fed is also expected to leave short-term interest rates steady, the U.S. central bank could provide further clues on its pace of future rate hikes in its first tightening cycle in a decade. The FOMC held its benchmark Federal Funds Rate at a target range between 0.25 and 0.50% in January, one month after abandoning a seven-year zero interest rate policy. The U.S. economy has shown signs of improvement since the FOMC's last meeting. In February, non-farm payrolls surged by 242,000, considerably above consensus estimates of gains of 190,000. A month earlier, the Core PCE Index, the Fed's preferred gauge on inflation, soared by 1.7% on an annual basis, its strongest annual gain in more than a year. Economists, however, remain concerned by sluggish wage gains after average hourly earnings fell by 0.1% last month. The CME Group's (NASDAQ:NASDAQ:CME) Fed Watch reported on Monday that there is a 96.1% chance the FOMC will leave rates unchanged at the March meeting. By comparison, the CME Group said a month ago there was an 81.5% probability that the FOMC would hold rates steady. Any rate hikes by the FOMC this year are viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. On Thursday, the Bank of England will end a week of central bank meetings with its latest interest rate decision. 
