Title: Oil prices stabilize after plunging 5% overnight
Date: 20160706
Content:
Investing.com - Oil prices stabilized in European trade on Wednesday, after plunging by as much as 5% overnight on the back of renewed concerns over the economic impact of Britain's vote to leave the European Union. On the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for September delivery fell to a session low of $47.53 a barrel, its weakest since June 28. It last stood at $47.98 a barrel by 07:58GMT, or 3:58AM ET, up 2 cents, or 0.04%. A day earlier, London-traded Brent futures plunged $2.14, or 4.27%, as investors fled anything considered a risky asset amid concerns over the global economy. Three U.K. commercial property funds worth about 10 billion pounds suspended trading on Tuesday in the face of a rush of redemptions from investors fearing a slump in British property values. Concerns that financial and political instability in Italy could lead to even more chaos in Europe spooked investors further. The news sparked concerns that Europe will fall back into recession, putting more pressure on the global economy and undermining future oil demand prospects. Elsewhere, crude oil for August delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange inched up 4 cents, or 0.09%, to trade at $46.64 a barrel, after falling to a daily low of $46.15, a level not seen since June 27. On Tuesday, New York-traded oil prices sank $2.39, or 4.88%, after industry group Genscape reported a surprise build of 230,025 barrels at the Cushing, Oklahoma delivery point for WTI futures during the week to July 1. Market players now looked ahead to fresh weekly information on U.S. stockpiles of crude and refined products. The American Petroleum Institute will release its inventories report later in the day, while Thursday’s government report could show crude stockpiles fell by 2.5 million barrels. The reports come out one day later than usual due to the Independence Day holiday in the U.S. on Monday. Signs of a potential recovery in U.S. drilling activity remained in focus. According to oilfield services provider Baker Hughes, the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. rose by 11 last week to 341, marking the fourth increase in five weeks. The renewed gain in U.S. drilling activity fueled speculation that domestic production could be on the verge of rebounding in the weeks ahead, underlining worries over a supply glut. 
