Title: Natural gas futures hit a new 9-month high amid rising temperatures
Date: 20160621
Content:
Investing.com - U.S. natural gas futures rose to a new nine-month high on Tuesday, as forecasts for continued above-normal temperatures across most parts of the U.S. throughout most of summer raised expectations for power generation demand to meet air conditioning needs. Updated forecasts released Monday said temperatures in the Midwest and eastern seaboard will be warmer than previously expected going into the July 4 holiday weekend. Demand for natural gas tends to rise in the summer months as warmer temperatures increase the need for gas-fired electricity to power air conditioning. Natural gas for delivery in July on the New York Mercantile Exchange rose to an intraday peak of $2.786 per million British thermal units, the most since September 15. It last stood at $2.756 by 14:35GMT, or 10:35AM ET, up 0.9 cents, or 0.33%. A day earlier, gas futures surged 12.4 cents, or 4.73%. Natural gas prices are up nearly 40% since late May as expectations have grown that hot summer weather will lead to heavy demand. Natural gas prices have closely tracked weather forecasts in recent weeks, as traders try to gauge the impact of shifting outlooks on early summer cooling demand. Gas use typically hits a seasonal low with spring's mild temperatures, before warmer weather increases demand for gas-fired electricity generation to power air conditioning. Meanwhile, traders looked ahead to fresh weekly information on U.S. gas inventories to gauge the strength of demand for the fuel. The U.S. Energy Information Administration's storage report slated for release on Thursday is expected to show a build in a range between 55 to 66 billion cubic feet for the week ending June 17. That compared with builds of 69 billion cubic feet in the prior week, 73 billion a year earlier and a five-year average of 88 billion cubic feet. Total U.S. natural gas storage stood at 3.041 trillion cubic feet, 20.8% higher than levels at this time a year ago and 23.2% above the five-year average for this time of year. Unless intense summer heat boosts demand from power plants, stockpiles will test physical storage limits of 4.3 trillion cubic feet at the end of October. Elsewhere on the Nymex, crude oil for delivery in August dropped 97 cents, or 1.94%, to trade at $48.99 a barrel, while heating oil for July delivery slumped 2.34% to trade at $1.491 per gallon. 
