Title: Gold falls below $1,250 ahead of Fed speakers
Date: 20160321
Content:
Investing.com - Gold futures were lower in North American trade on Monday, as market players awaited comments from a pair of Federal Reserve officials later in the session for further clues on the path of future rate hikes. Following last week’s dovish Fed meeting, the market will be paying attention to FOMC member speeches to judge the balance of opinion among policymakers on the prospect of further rate hikes. Atlanta Fed President Dennis Lockhart will speak on the economic outlook and monetary policy at 16:40GMT, or 12:40PM ET, while St. Louis Fed President James Bullard speaks on economic inequality at 8:30PM ET. Earlier in the day, San Francisco Fed President John Williams downplayed worries that falling market-based measures of inflation are predictive of overall U.S. price measures. Williams added that the central bank could still increase interest rates in April and June if economic data provides a backdrop for such a policy move. Meanwhile, Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker said that U.S. inflation will likely accelerate in coming years and move toward the Fed's 2% target after the price of oil bottoms out. The dollar continued to recover from five-month lows as investors closed out bearish bets following an aggressive selloff late last week. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, tacked on 0.2% to 95.27, moving away from Friday’s five-month low of 94.61. Gold for April delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange slumped $6.30, or 0.5%, to trade at $1,248.00 a troy ounce by 14:15GMT, or 10:15AM ET. On Friday, gold lost $10.70, or 0.85%. Despite recent losses, prices of the yellow metal are up nearly 16% so far this year as investors seek safe havens in the face of mounting instability in other financial markets and as fears over a China-led global economic slowdown make it tougher for the Fed to raise rates. The U.S. central bank surprised markets last week by cutting its rate hike projections more than expected, down from four to two in 2016, citing the potential impact from weaker global growth and financial market turmoil on the U.S. economy. Investors and economists dialed back their own rate hike expectations in wake of the Fed’s surprisingly dovish outlook, with traders of interest-rate futures now seeing no rate rise before September. A gradual path to higher rates is seen as less of a threat to gold prices than a swift series of increases. In the week ahead, market players will be turning their attention to Friday’s final reading on U.S. fourth quarter gross domestic product for fresh indications on the strength of the economy. Reports on U.S. durable goods orders and home sales will also be in focus, as investors attempt to gauge if the world's largest economy is strong enough to withstand further rate hikes in 2016. Also on the Comex, silver futures for May delivery inched up 3.4 cents, or 0.22%, to trade at $15.84 a troy ounce during morning hours in New York, while copper futures tacked on 0.9 cents, or 0.42%, to $2.292 a pound. 
