Title: NYMEX, Brent weaker in Asia with support on Nigeria disruptions
Date: 20160610
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices held weaker in Asia on Friday, but conflict in Nigeria's oil production region offered some support. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for July delivery eased 0.30% to $50.41 a barrel. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent fell 0.25% to $51.82 a barrel. Overnight, crude futures retreated from 11-month highs on Thursday, taking a pause from the massive rally over the last several months, amid heavy profit from speculators throughout global energy markets. Both the U.S. and international benchmarks of crude have rallied approximately 90% from February lows when they plunged to their lowest levels in a dozen years. Investors continued to digest a bullish stockpile report from the prior session when the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said U.S. commercial crude oil inventories decreased by 3.2 million barrels for the week ending on June 3. At 532.5 million barrels, U.S. crude oil inventories are still at historically high levels for this time of year. Meanwhile, crude output nationwide increased by 10,000 barrels per day to 8.745 million bpd last week, ending a four-month streak of weekly declines. The slight increases provide some signs that U.S. shale producers could be ready to return online as prices continue to creep higher. Many analysts believe that shale companies need prices to exceed $60 a barrel in order to maximize profits. Crude prices also faltered on Thursday in the face of a broadly stronger dollar, which enjoyed its strongest one-day rally in a week. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, surged more than 0.50% to an intraday high of 94.08. The index has still crashed by more than 5% since early-December. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Elsewhere, energy traders reacted to reports that a second militant group could enter the fray in a longstanding conflict in Southern Nigeria. On Wednesday evening, Today.NG reported that the Ultimate Warriors of the Niger Delta have made threats to the Nigerian government, demanding that president Muhammadu Buhari's administration provide 60% of oil and gas revenues to the native people of the Niger Delta region. Over the last two weeks, more than a dozen attacks of oil facilities in the area by a group known as the Niger Delta Avengers has caused pushed output in the country to two-decade lows.
