Title: NYMEX crude jumps in Asia as Canada fire, Saudi oil chief switch eyed
Date: 20160508
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices gained smartly in Asia on Monday with disruptions to Canadian output from a devastating wildfire and a switch in oil ministers in Saudi Arabia gaining attention. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in June rose 2.19% to $45.64 a barrel. Saudi Arabia, the world's largest crude oil exporter, on Saturday appointed Khalid al-Falih, chairman of the state oil giant Saudi Aramco, as its new energy minister, replacing Ali al-Naimi, who had held the post since 1995. The Financial Times said the switch is part of a broader plan to modernize the Saudi economy away from a reliance on oil as a mainstay. Market participants will keep an eye out for monthly reports from the International Energy Agency and the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Counties to gauge global supply and demand levels. Last week, oil futures inched up on Friday, as a huge wildfire in Canada disrupted its oil sands production. Nearly one million barrels per day of Canada's crude production capacity had been taken offline as of Friday as the wildfires ravaged the oil town of Fort McMurray in Alberta and forced evacuation of workers and precautionary production cuts or shutdowns at about a dozen major facilities. Fort McMurray is the center of Canada's oil sands region. Despite Friday’s gains, oil prices ended the week lower as concerns over a global supply glut lingered. U.S. crude oil stockpiles rose by 2.8 million barrels last week to a record-high of 543.4 million barrels, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. Elsewhere, on the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for July delivery inched up 36 cents, or 0.8%, to settle at $45.37 a barrel. Brent was pushed higher amid reports of a militant attack on a Chevron-operated offshore oil facility in Nigeria's oil-rich Niger Delta region as well as news of escalating fighting in Libya. Brent futures prices are up by roughly 60% since briefly dropping below $30 a barrel in mid-February, despite the collapse of talks at a Doha summit in April aimed at achieving a production freeze among OPEC and Non-OPEC producers. OPEC meets on June 2 in Vienna and may discuss the freeze initiative again. 
