Title: Gold / Silver / Copper futures - weekly outlook: October 31 - November 4
Date: 20161030
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices rose to an almost four-week high on Friday amid heightened safe haven demand after the FBI said it would review more emails related to Hillary Clinton's private email use. The report sparked fresh uncertainty over Mrs. Clinton’s election prospects ahead of the November 8 U.S. presidential election, amid fears over what a victory for Republican candidate Donald Trump might mean for the U.S. Gold for December delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange was up $6.00, or 0.47%, to settle at $1,275.5 a troy ounce after rising to $1,281.5 earlier, the most since October 4. The dollar fell following the report, despite the release of better-than-expected data on U.S. third quarter growth earlier Friday, which supported that case for a Federal Reserve rate hike in December. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, fell 0.62% to 98.31 after rising as high as 98.92 earlier. U.S. gross domestic product expanded at an annual rate of 2.9% in the three months to September the Commerce Department said, after rising by 1.4% in the second quarter. Economists had forecast growth of 2.5%. The report also showed that U.S. consumer spending slowed to 2.1% in the last quarter, from 4.3% in the second quarter. Despite the slowdown in consumer spending the report indicated the economy is on a strong enough footing to withstand higher interest rates. The U.S. central bank raised rates for the first time in almost a decade in December. The Fed’s next meeting is next week, but a rate hike ahead of the presidential election is seen as unlikely. Investors currently price a 68% chance of a rate hike at the Fed's December meeting; according to federal funds futures tracked Investing.com's Fed Rate Monitor Tool. Gold is sensitive to moves in U.S. rates, which lift the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding assets such as bullion, while boosting the dollar in which it is priced. Also on the Comex, silver futures for December delivery were at $17.76 a troy ounce in late trade. Elsewhere in metals trading, copper for December delivery settled at $2.19 a pound. In the week ahead, investors will be looking to Wednesdays Fed policy statement for fresh hints on the timing of the next rate hike. Markets will also be looking ahead to Friday’s U.S. nonfarm payrolls report for October. Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of significant events likely to affect the markets. Monday, October 31 The euro zone is to release preliminary data on third quarter growth and an initial estimate on inflation. The U.K. is to produce data on net lending. The U.S. is to publish reports on personal income and expenditure and business activity in the Chicago region. Tuesday, November 1 China is to publish official data on manufacturing and service sector activity, as well as the private sector Caixin manufacturing index. The Reserve Bank of Australia is to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish a policy statement which outlines economic conditions and the factors affecting the monetary policy decision. The Bank of Japan is also to announce its latest monetary policy decision and hold a post-policy meeting press conference. The U.K. is to release data on activity in the manufacturing sector. Canada is to produce the monthly report on economic growth. In the U.S., the Institute of Supply Management is to report on manufacturing activity. Wednesday, November 2 New Zealand is to publish its quarterly employment report as well as data on inflation expectations. Australia is to report on building approvals. The U.K. is to release data on activity in the construction sector. The U.S. is to release the ADP report on private sector job creation. Later in the day, the Federal Reserve is to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish what will be a closely watched policy statement. Thursday, November 3 Financial markets in Japan are to remain closed for a holiday. Australia is to release data on the trade balance. The U.K. is to release data on activity in the service sector. The Bank of England is to announce its benchmark interest rate. The policy announcement is to be followed by a press conference with Governor Mark Carney. The U.S. is to produce data on factory orders and the Institute of Supply Management is to report on manufacturing activity. Friday, November 4 Australia is to report on retail sales. Canada is to release its monthly employment report and data on the trade balance. The U.S. is to round up the week with the closely watched nonfarm payrolls report and data on the trade balance.
