Title: Gold pares losses after falling to 1-month low, amid soft durable goods
Date: 20160324
Content:
Investing.com -- After dropping to near one-month lows on Thursday, amid continued gains in the dollar, gold pared earlier losses following a soft monthly durable goods report, which slowed some momentum from an improving U.S. economy. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for May delivery traded in a tight range between $1,212.90 and $1,223.90 an ounce before settling at $1,220.60, down 3.40 or 0.28% on the session. At session lows, gold futures fell to their lowest levels since February. It came one day after the precious plummeted more than 2%, suffering one of its worst one-day losses in 2016, due primarily to mounting expectations for multiple interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve before the end of the year. For the week, gold tumbled about 2.4%, completing its worst week of the year. U.S. markets are closed on Friday for the Easter holiday. Despite the recent losses, gold is still up by approximately 14% since the start of the year and is on track for one of its strongest opening quarters since the start of the year. Gold likely gained support at $1,063.20, the low from January 4 and was met with resistance at $1,280.70, the high from Mar. 11. Gold continued its slide on Thursday morning when Federal Reserve of St. Louis president James Bullard hinted that the U.S. central bank's next rate hike could be looming if the economy demonstrates continued improvement over the next few weeks. While delivering a speech in New York, Bullard noted that the Fed could raise rates when it meets again in late-April and its next rate hike "may not be far off" if inflation continues to increase and unemployment declines from December levels. Bullard's comments come in the wake of a wave of hawkish statements by his colleagues at the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) earlier this week. On Wednesday, Philadelphia Fed president Patrick Harker also recommended that the FOMC raise rates as early as April, while suggesting as many as three rate hikes by the end of the year. Harker's statements followed comparable hawkish positions from San Francisco Fed president John Williams and Atlanta Fed president Dennis Lockhart at the start of the week. They also jive with comments from Janet Yellen at a press conference last week when the Fed chair noted that the central bank should remain cautious with future rate hikes given persistent risks with global economic and financial conditions. At the meeting, the Fed held its benchmark Federal Funds Rate at its current targeted range between 0.25 and 0.50%. The rate continues to linger around 0.37%. Any rate hikes this year are viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. Further tightening by the Fed is also considered bullish for the dollar, as foreign investors pile into the greenback in order to capitalize on more favorable rates. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, jumped more than 0.30% to an intraday high of 96.39, before falling back to 96.17 in U.S. afternoon trading. The index is on pace for a five-day winning streak, one of its highest in a year. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Gold rallied somewhat after the U.S. Census Bureau said new durable goods orders fell 2.8% last month, one month after surging nearly 5% in January. In addition, new orders excluding transportation, which includes volatile aircraft orders, also dipped by 1.0% considerably below expectations for slight declines of 0.2%. The reductions were mostly a result of a stronger dollar, which weakened the demand for exports. Silver for May delivery fell 0.067 or 0.44% to 15.205 an ounce. Copper for May delivery lost 0.009 or 0.38% to 2.27 a pound.  
