Title: Oil prices retreat as Wednesday’s supply-driven rally loses steam
Date: 20160407
Content:
Investing.com - Oil prices were lower in North America trade on Thursday, one day after posting its biggest one-day gain in almost a month after data showed that U.S. oil inventories unexpectedly fell from the highest level in more than eight decades. Crude oil for May delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange rose to an intraday peak of $38.29 a barrel, the most since April1, before turning lower to trade at $37.45 by 13:47GMT, or 9:47AM ET, down 30 cents, or 0.79%. A day earlier, Nymex oil prices soared $1.86, or 5.18%, after data showed that oil supplies in the U.S. fell for the first time in eight weeks last week. The U.S. Energy Information Administration said in its weekly report that crude oil inventories fell by 4.9 million barrels last week to 529.9 million barrels. The prior week, crude stockpiles stood at the highest level in more than 80 years. Nymex oil prices are up nearly 35% since falling to 13-year lows at $26.05 on February 11, as a decline in U.S. shale production boosted sentiment. However, analysts warned that market conditions remained weak due to an ongoing glut. Elsewhere, on the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for June delivery shed 44 cents, or 1.1%, to trade at $39.40 a barrel after climbing to a daily peak of $40.29, the highest since April 1. On Wednesday, London-traded Brent futures surged $1.97, or 5.2%, as Kuwait raised fresh hopes for a production freeze later this month. Kuwait's OPEC governor Nawal Al-Fuzaia said that all signs suggest that a meeting of OPEC and non-OPEC oil producing countries in Doha on April 17 will result in an initial agreement to freeze output at February levels, or at an average of January and February levels. The original proposal by Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Russia and Venezuela was for a freeze at January levels. Doubts that oil producing countries would freeze output to address a global glut mounted last week after Saudi Deputy Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman said that the kingdom will not cap output unless Iran and other major producers do so as well. Iran has maintained that it will not contribute to any output freeze until its crude exports return to pre-sanction levels of around 4 million barrels a day. Brent futures prices are up by roughly 35% since briefly dropping below $30 a barrel on February 11. Short-covering began in mid-February after Saudi Arabia and fellow OPEC members Qatar and Venezuela agreed with non-OPEC member Russia to freeze output at January levels, provided other oil exporters joined in. Meanwhile, Brent's premium to the WTI crude contract stood at $1.95 a barrel, compared to a gap of $2.09 by close of trade on Wednesday. 
