Title: Crude ticks down as key Saudi oilfield decides to ramp up May output
Date: 20160425
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude futures closed slightly lower on Monday on a choppy, volatile day of trading with few signals from Saudi Arabia that an excessive supply glut is about to level off anytime in the near-term future. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for June delivery traded in a broad range between $42.59 and $44.03 a barrel, before settling at $42.66, down 1.07 or 2.45% on the session. With the slight losses, U.S. crude futures halted a four-day winning streak from last week. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for July delivery wavered between $44.23 and $45.47 a barrel, before closing at $44.36, down 0.70 or 1.55% on the session. Despite the mild sell-off, oil prices worldwide are up by more than 40% since falling to 12-year lows in mid-February. On Monday, the Saudi Arabian cabinet approved a plan to offer a 5% stake in state-run oil company Saudi Aramco in an Initial Public Offering (IPO), which it expects to value at more than $2 trillion. With the added capital, the kingdom plans to create a sovereign-wealth fund with $2 trillion in diversified assets, one with potential to become the largest in the world. With Monday's launch of a highly-anticipated "Saudi Vision 2030" initiative, Saudi Prince Mohammed bin Salman emphasized that the government can still operate viably five years from now "without any dependence" on oil. Last year, oil proceeds represented approximately 80% of the kingdom's annual income. In addition, Saudi officials at the Shaybah Oil field in the Al-Khali desert announced that it will ramp up production by 250,000 barrels per day to 1 million in May. "The vision is a road map of our development and economic goals. A part of that is related to Aramco and this is a very small aspect," Prince Salman said in an interview with the state-owned al-Arabiya network. In February, Saudi oil production eclipsed 10.2 million bpd, hovering near all-time record-highs. Earlier this month, talks at a closely-watched OPEC-Non-OPEC meeting in Qatar collapsed after Saudi Arabia insisted that any deal aimed at freezing output include Iran, which refused to attend the summit. In recent months, Iran has been hesitant to cap output until its production returns to 2011 pre-sanction levels around 4 million bpd. Oil prices worldwide are down more than 40% since OPEC rattled global energy markets in November, 2014, with a strategic decision to maintain its production ceiling above 30 million bpd. The tactic triggered a prolonged battle with U.S. shale producer for market share, flooding markets with excessive supply. Last week, however, IEA executive director Faith Birol said he expects to see a decline of nearly 700,000 barrels per day in Non-OPEC production this year, a level which would amount to the sharpest decline in supply over the last quarter-century. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, lost more than 0.45% to an intraday low of 94.69. With the considerable losses, the index retreated back near eight-month lows. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates.
