Title: Gold treads water while waiting for U.S. inflation and consumer data
Date: 20160715
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices inched up in European trade on Friday with better-than-expected GDP data from China a bit of a dampener on expectation for easier monetary policy in the country and while investors looked ahead to inflation figures and data on the American consumer to be released in the United States. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for August delivery edged forward 0.06% to $1,333.50 a troy ounce. Silver futures for September delivery were down 0.12% to $20.297 a troy ounce, while copper futures for September delivery reversed course and rose 0.22% to $2.248 a pound. GDP figures out of China showed a 6.7% gain in the second quarter ended June year-on-year period, beating the 6.6% rise seen, and also rose 1.8% quarter-on-quarter, better than the 1.6% increase expected. Also in China, fixed asset investment rose 9.0%, less than the 9.4% year-on-year gain seen in June, while industrial production gained 6.2%, better than 5.9% seen in the same period and retail sales rose 10.6%, a tad better than 10.0% seen. Overnight, gold fell sharply in broad risk-on trade, as a JP Morgan-driven rally sent equities on Wall Street soaring to fresh record-highs while investors departed from a bevy of safe-haven assets, following an unexpected decision from the Bank of England to hold its key interest rate steady. Since hitting 28-month highs last week, Gold has closed lower in five of the last six sessions while losing approximately 2% in value. On Friday's economic calendar, investors will focus on a score of data out stateside with particular attention paid to June inflation figures, retail sales for the same month and the preliminary read of consumer sentiment in July from the University of Michigan. Also set to be released are the July NY Empire State manufacturing index, June industrial production and May business inventories. The CPI data will be particularly key as a series of public appearances since the Fed last met in late-June, a wide range of Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) members have offered diverging comments on the timing of the U.S. central bank's next rate hike. While Philadelphia Fed president Patrick Harker said Thursday that the FOMC could raise short-term interest rates as much as twice this year, three other Fed officials signaled that they were in no rush to raise rates. Markets had dismissed the possibility of policy tightening this year with odds at 100% that the Fed will keep rates on hold at the July 26-27 meeting and only a 37% chance of a hike in December. Any rate hikes by the Fed this year are viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments.
