Title: Gold falls slightly in Asia with investors cautious ahead of Fed meet
Date: 20160607
Content:
Investing.com - Gold eased slightly in Asia on Wednesday with investors cautious ahead of next week's Fed meeting. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, Gold for August delivery eased 0.04% to $1,246.55 a troy ounce. Silver futures for July delivery fell 0.02% to $16.390 a troy ounce, while copper futures for July delivery rose 0.10% to $2.054 a pound. Overnight, gold eased from two-week highs on Tuesday in spite of a stronger dollar, as investors continued to react to abstruse comments from Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen on the strength of the global economy and the possibility of a summer interest rate hike. Addressing a luncheon audience at a World Affairs Council event in Philadelphia on Monday, Yellen omitted any reference to the timing of the Fed's next interest rate hike. Yellen's stance represented a shift from her position less than two weeks ago when she sent strong indications that the Fed appeared ready to resume tightening of its monetary policy cycle. But last week the domestic labor market suffered an unforeseen shock when the U.S. Department of Labor reported that the economy added 38,000 in May, the fewest number of monthly jobs in nearly six years. While maintaining her signature calm disposition, Yellen downplayed the unsettling developments arguing that it is not constructive to attach too much significance to one report. Yellen also emphasized that a potential "leave" vote by U.K. voters in a controversial June 23 referendum could pose serious repercussions to the world economy. Yellen's comments have done little to sway market sentiments. The CME Group's (NASDAQ:NASDAQ:CME) FedWatch tool lowered the probability of a July rate hike to 24.8% on Tuesday from 25.8% one session earlier. The market sees virtually no chance of a rate hike next week when the FOMC convenes for the two-day meeting on June 14-15. The current probability of a June rate hike fell to 1.9% on Tuesday from 3.8% during the previous day. Investors who are bullish on gold are in favor of a gradual tightening of monetary policy by the Fed over the current cycle. Gold, which is not attached to interest rates, struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. 
