Title: Gold crashes as U.S. dollar, oil, global stocks all push higher
Date: 20160222
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices fell hard on Monday, as strong gains in the U.S. dollar, oil prices and global stock markets dented the precious metal’s safe-haven appeal. Gold for April delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange tumbled by as much as $28.30, or 2.3%, to hit an intraday low of $1,202.50 a troy ounce, before bouncing back to $1,213.10 by 13:40GMT, or 8:40AM ET, down $17.70, or 1.44%. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, was up 0.85% at 97.44, the highest since February 3. The dollar’s gains came as the British pound plunged to a six-year low after London Mayor Boris Johnson’s shock decision to back a campaign for Britain to leave the European Union in a June referendum. Meanwhile, oil prices rallied more than $1 on Monday, amid indications U.S. oil drillers are cutting back on production. U.S. stock markets pointed to strong gains at the open on Monday, with the Dow futures briefly jumping more than 200 points, while European and Asian shares recorded sharp gains. Gold held above the $1,200-level amid ongoing speculation the Federal Reserve could delay the pace of its tightening for the remainder of 2016. Prices of the yellow metal soared to a one-year high of $1,263.90 on February 11. Gold is up nearly 16% so far this year amid indications global economic and financial headwinds could make it tough for the Fed to raise interest rates as much as it would like this year. Market participants have all but priced out any rate hikes this year, while the Fed is anticipating four more. A gradual path to higher rates is seen as less of a threat to gold prices than a swift series of increases. In the week ahead, market players will be turning their attention to Friday’s revised data on U.S. fourth quarter gross domestic product for a fresh reading on the strength of the economy. Reports on U.S. durable goods orders and consumer confidence will also be in focus, as investors attempt to gauge if the world's largest economy is strong enough to withstand further rate hikes in 2016. Also on the Comex, silver futures for March delivery dropped 25.3 cents, or 1.65%, to trade at $15.11 a troy ounce during morning hours in New York. Elsewhere in metals trading, copper futures jumped to a more than two-week high on Monday, amid mounting expectations for further stimulus measures from central banks in Europe and Asia. 
