Title: Gold prices down in Asia on profit taking, but sentiment holds
Date: 20160609
Content:
Investing.com - Gold dipped in Asia on Friday as investors booked profits off an overnight gain with sentiment for the yellow metal holding solid as the market discounts a rate hike by the Federal Reserve next week. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, Gold for August delivery eased 0.29% to $1,269.00 a troy ounce. Silver futures for July delivery rose 0.19% to $17.300 a troy ounce, while copper futures for July delivery dropped 0.29% to $2.033 a pound Overnight, gold surged to fresh 3-week highs, despite a broadly stronger dollar, as investors continued to pile into the safe-have asset amid little indication that major central banks worldwide are ready to abandon a guiding principle of maintaining interest rates at historic lows. Since the start of the year, gold futures are up by more than 15% holding onto gains from the strongest first quarter of a year in more than a decade. On Thursday, a survey of leading economists from Reuters showed there is a 40% chance the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates in July, according to median projection, along with a 65% probability of an initial rate hike in September. Economists have virtually taken a June rate hike off the table following a dismal U.S. jobs report in May when the economy added its fewest nonfarm payrolls in nearly six years. At the same time, market players have engaged in a flight to safety to low-risk assets such as gold and the yen, as financial stocks and bond yields continue to tumble. Any rate hikes by the Fed this year are viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. A day earlier, Bloomberg reported that billionaire investor George Soros has taken a more active role in his family's trading activity, amid widespread concerns related to the weakness of the global economy. Last month, reports surfaced that Soros purchased more than 19 million shares of miner Barrick Gold Corporation (NYSE:ABX) for approximately $264 million, while investing in more than 1 million call options in the SPDR Gold Trust ETF, carrying a value of $123 million.  
