Title: NYMEX crude gains in Asia as attention turns to U.S. politics, OPEC eyed
Date: 20161106
Content:
Investing.com - Oil prices rebounded in Asia on Monday as investors turned attention toward U.S. politics while awaiting clarity on OPEC efforts to curb output. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in December rose 0.91% to $44.47 a barrel. In the week ahead, politics are expected to overshadow market fundamentals, with most of the focus falling on Tuesday's U.S. Presidential Election. At the weekend, news the FBI stood by its earlier recommendation that no criminal charges were warranted against Democrat Hillary Clinton for using a private email server are seen as likely aiding her chances over rival Donald Trump. Oil traders will also keep an eye out for monthly reports from the International Energy Agency and the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Counties on Thursday and Friday respectively for fresh supply-and-demand signals. Last week, oil futures tumbled to multi-month lows on Friday and booked their biggest weekly loss in almost a year amid mounting skepticism over the implementation of a planned deal by OPEC to limit production. On the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for January delivery fell to a session low of $45.08 a barrel, a level not seen since August 11. It was last at $45.58 by close of trade Friday, settling down 77 cents, or 1.66%. Prices fell sharply on Friday after Reuters, citing an OPEC source, reported that Saudi Arabia threatened to raise its oil production at a meeting of OPEC experts last week if Iran refused to cap its output. A short time later, Bloomberg News reported that OPEC Secretary General Mohammed Barkindo denied that the Saudis made the threat. OPEC reached an agreement to cap output to a range of 32.5 million to 33.0 million barrels per day in talks held in Algeria in late September. However, the 14-member oil group said it won’t finalize details on individual output quotas until its next official meeting in Vienna on November 30. The possibility that producers could walk away empty-handed from the November meeting looms large after Iraq, Iran, Nigeria and Libya all signaled they might not take part in the proposed production cut deal. Russia’s unclear stance is also fueling uncertainty. Prices stayed lower after oilfield services provider Baker Hughes said late Friday that the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. last week rose by 9 to 450, resuming its rise following its first dip in roughly four months in the previous week. 
