Title: Gold retreats to 5-week lows amid rising odds for September rate hike
Date: 20160829
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices held on to overnight losses in North American hours on Monday, trading at five-week lows after senior Federal Reserve officials indicated a U.S. interest rate increase was on the cards in the near term. Gold for December delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange touched an intraday low of $1,317.20 a troy ounce, a level not seen since July 26. It was last at $1,323.05 by 8:37AM ET (12:37GMT), down $2.85, or 0.21%. Odds for an interest rate hike from the Federal Reserve in the coming months spiked after Fed Chair Janet Yellen said Friday that the case for an increase was strengthening, while Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer indicated a tightening is possible at the next review in September. According to Investing.com's Fed Rate Monitor Tool, investors are currently pricing in a 36% chance of a rate hike by September, up from 21% before Yellen and Fischer spoke. December odds were at around 65%, compared to 50% Friday morning. The precious metal is sensitive to moves in U.S. rates, which lift the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding assets such as bullion, while boosting the dollar in which it is priced. The U.S. dollar climbed to a three-week high on Monday as investors began to price in a greater likelihood that the Fed will raise rates this year. The dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, jumped to a daily peak of 95.79, the most since August 12. It was last at 95.75 early Monday. A stronger U.S. dollar usually weighs on gold, as it dampens the metal's appeal as an alternative asset and makes dollar-priced commodities more expensive for holders of other currencies. Investors will be keeping an eye on upcoming U.S. data to gauge if the world's largest economy is strong enough to withstand a rise in borrowing costs in the weeks ahead. The Commerce Department said in a report Monday that the core PCE price index inched up 0.1% last month, matching expectations. On an annualized basis, core PCE prices rose 1.6%, broadly in line with forecasts. The Federal Reserve uses core PCE as a tool to help determine whether to raise or lower interest rates, with the aim of keeping inflation at a rate of 2% or below. The report also showed that personal spending increased by 0.3% last month, while personal income advanced 0.4%. 
