Title: Gold prices gain in Asia as investors look ahead to China PMIs
Date: 20160229
Content:
Investing.com - Gold gained in Asia on Tuesday on expectations of continued easy global monetary policies following a surprise move by China overnight to boost liquidity in the banking system. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold rose 0.62% to $1,242.00 a troy ounce. Silver futures for March delivery jumped 1.61% to $14.925 a troy ounce, while copper futures for March delivery edged down 0.14% to $2.126 a pound. Ahead in China, the semi-official manufacturing PMI for February is due with a figure of 49.3 expected as well as the non-manufacturing PMI last reported at 53.5. Also up in the Caixin PMI seen at 48.3 from 48.4 in the previous month. On Monday, copper received a boost late in the session, after China injected approximately $100 billion or 680 billion yuan into its economy in an effort to ease liquidity in the banking sector. The surprising move by the People's Bank of China to cut the reserve requirement ratio for commercial banks is the latest in a series of easing measures aimed at calming investors, as China continues its shift to a consumer-driven economy. China is the world's largest consumer of copper and the second-largest consumer of gold, behind India. Overnight, gold futures rose more than 1% on Monday, amid disappointing economic data in the U.S., as the precious metal capped its strongest month in more than a decade against the backdrop of a slowing global economy and extreme volatility in financial markets worldwide. For the month of February, gold futures surged more than 10%, recording their best monthly performance since October, 2002. After extending gains from a stellar opening month of the year, gold remains on pace for its most productive first quarter in at least 30 years. Gold reached session-highs on Monday morning shortly after the Institute for Supply Management said its Chicago Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) plummeted eight points in February to 47.6, falling outside consensus estimates for the third consecutive month. It came as backlog orders contracted for the 13th straight month, employment remained in contraction territory for a fifth consecutive month and prices contracted at their quickest pace since 2009. A subset enters contraction territory when its reading drops below 50. Moments later, the National Association of Realtors said pending sales of existing homes slowed last month by 2.5% to 106.0, the lowest level since January of last year. On an annual basis, pending sales are up by just 1.4%, despite low unemployment figures and comparatively low mortgage rates. For the month of January, pending sales declined in three of the four regions of the U.S., with all but the South closing in the red. 
