Title: Gold down in Asia as investors exercise caution ahead of Fed events
Date: 20160403
Content:
Investing.com - Gold dipped in early Asia on Monday as investors noted stronger than expected jobs data int he U.S. last week and took caution ahead of a series of Federal Reserve events that include minutes later this week and speeches by several policymakers. Gold for June delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange fell 0.11% to $1,222.20 a troy ounce. Also on the Comex, silver futures for May delivery eased 0.17% to $$15.020 a troy ounce, while copper futures for May delivery shed 0.28% to $2.161 a pound. In the week ahead, market players will be turning their attention to Wednesday’s minutes of the Federal Reserve’s latest policy meeting for fresh clues on the timing of the next U.S. rate hike. There are also more than a half-dozen Fed speakers on tap for the coming week, including comments by Fed Chair Yellen on Thursday.Investors will also be looking ahead to U.S. data on service sector activity for further indications on the strength of the economy. On Monday, the U.S. is to release data on factory orders, while Boston Fed President Eric Rosengren, Minneapolis Fed President Neel Kashkari and Dallas Fed President Rob Kaplan are scheduled to speak throughout the day. Last week, gold prices lost 1% on Friday, as upbeat U.S. employment and manufacturing data sparked speculation the Federal Reserve might raise interest rates sooner and faster than expected. The U.S. Labor Department reported Friday that the economy added 215,000 jobs last month, exceeding expectations for a gain of 205,000. Average hourly earnings increased by a more-than-expected 0.3%, while the unemployment rate ticked up to 5.0% from an eight-year low of 4.9%, as more people entered the labor force. Other pieces of data released Friday included the ISM manufacturing index for March, which came in above estimates at 51.8. Separately, the University of Michigan said that its consumer sentiment index hit 91.0 in March, up from a previously estimated reading of 90.0. The upbeat data bolstered the argument that growth in the U.S. is strong enough for the Fed to raise interest rates in coming months. Investors also digested hawkish comments from Cleveland Fed President Loretta Mester. In prepared remarks, she said that the Fed should still raise interest rates gradually this year given the economy's resilience. Despite Friday’s steep decline, gold prices ended the week with a gain of $1.90, or 0.24%, snapping a three-week losing streak.Gold prices were up more than 2% earlier this week after Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen emphasized global dangers to growth and inflation, and thus the need to proceed "cautiously" on tightening policy. The dovish comments were in direct contrast to recent hawkish remarks by other FOMC members, who suggested another move on interest rate may be just around the corner. Market players shrugged off data showing that manufacturing activity in China swung into expansion territory for the first time since August this month. China’s official manufacturing purchasing managers’ index rose to 50.2 in March from 49.0 the previous month. Analysts had expected the index to tick up to 49.3 this month. The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for nearly 45% of world consumption.  
