Title: Nymex, Brent down in Asia with U.S. rig count data ahead
Date: 20160128
Content:
Investing.com - Crude weakened further in Asia on Thursday after downbeat stockpile data from the U.S. and rig count data in focus. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for March delivery traded down 0.94% to $32.00 a barrel. Brent eased 0.68% to $33.70 a barrel. Overnight, U.S. crude futures pared early losses, closing up by more than 3% on Wednesday, as a considerable inventory stockpile did not surge as high as some investors feared, following a massive build from the American Petroleum Institute hours earlier. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for April delivery wavered between $31.61 and $34.32 a barrel, before closing at $33.92, up 1.36 or 4.22% on the session. North Sea Brent crude futures are still down approximately 7% in January, remaining near their lowest levels since 2003. On Wednesday morning, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said in its Weekly Petroleum Status Report that U.S. commercial crude oil inventories for the week ending on January 22, increased by 8.4 million barrels from the previous week. At 494.9 million barrels, U.S. crude oil inventories remain near levels not seen for this time of year in at least the last 80 years. Total motor gasoline inventories also increased by 3.5 million barrels last week, extending sharp gains from the previous two weeks when gasoline stockpiles surged by nearly 20 million barrels. Last week's significant build still pales to the figure reported by the API on Tuesday evening when the institute said weekly stockpiles soared by 11.4 million barrels, marking one of its strongest one-week moves since 1996. Many analysts attribute the spike to seasonal increases by refineries, which typically build up its inventories in the winter months to prepare for the summer driving season. By comparison, U.S. crude stockpiles also increased by more than 8 million barrels last year in the third week of January, representing a weekly gain of more than 2.2%. In 2015, during a six-week period ending on February 27, U.S. crude inventories soared by nearly 10%. Investors also continued to digest reports that OPEC and Russia may consider to work collaboratively in order to slash output in an effort to stem the downturn in prices. Production among Saudi Arabia and Russia, two of the largest oil powers in the world, remains near record-highs. 
