Title: Gold prices down in Asia on solid China GDP, copper posts gains
Date: 20160714
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices remained weaker in Asia on Friday with better-than-expected GDP data from China a bit of a dampener on expectation for easier monetary policy in the country and also helped copper rebound. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for August delivery fell 0.28% to $1,328.50 a troy ounce. Silver futures for September delivery were down 0.34% to $20.252 a troy ounce, while copper futures for September delivery reversed course and rose 0.36% to $2.247 a pound. GDP figures out of China showed a 6.7% gain in the second quarter ended June year-on-year period, beating the 6.6% rise seen, and also rose 1.8% quarter-on-quarter, better than the 1.6% increase expected. Also in China, fixed asset investment rose 9.0%, less than the 9.4% year-on-year gain seen in June, while industrial production gained 6.2%, better than 5.9% seen in the same period and retail sales rose 10.6%, a tad better than 10.0% seen. Overnight, gold fell sharply in broad risk-on trade, as a JPMorgan-driven (NYSE:JPM) rally sent equities on Wall Street soaring to fresh record-highs while investors departed from a bevy of safe-haven assets, following an unexpected decision from the Bank of England to hold its key interest rate steady. Since hitting 28-month highs last week, Gold has closed lower in five of the last six sessions while losing approximately 2% in value. On Thursday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the S&P 500 Composite surged to fresh all-time highs after JP Morgan kicked off the second quarter earnings season for major banks by topping analysts' earnings forecasts by a wide margin. JP Morgan, the world's largest bank, reported adjusted earnings per share of 1.55 (expected EPS 1.46) and revenue of $25.2 billion, up more than 0.5% on both a quarterly and annual basis. It came amid soaring revenues from the company's Fixed Income division, which ended the quarter with $3.96 billion in revenues, up 35% from the same period last year. As a result, the Dow remained on pace for its third straight record close while the S&P was on pace to close at an all-time high for the fourth consecutive session. Elsewhere, initial U.S. jobless claims last week were unchanged at a seasonally-adjusted total of 254,000, lingering near 43-year lows. In April, new jobless claims throughout the U.S. fell by 6,000 to 247,000, dropping to their lowest level since November, 1973. Meanwhile, the four-week average on Thursday declined slightly to 259,000, falling roughly 10,000 below the one-month mean from mid-June. Also on Thursday, the U.S. Labor Department reported that producer prices last month rose considerably, building on increased pricing pressure from May's report. The Bureau of Labor Statistics' PPI-FD rose by 0.5% in June, slightly up from 0.4% gains a month earlier and above consensus estimates of 0.3%. The Core PPI-FD, which strips out volatile food and energy prices, jumped 0.3% on a monthly basis, swinging to a gain after a slight decrease of 0.1% in May. During a series of public appearances since the Fed last met in late-June, a wide range of Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) members have offered diverging comments on the timing of the U.S. central bank's next rate hike. While delivering a speech in Houston on Wednesday, Dallas Fed president Rob Kaplan indicated that the FOMC can remain accommodative as long as its dual mandate in terms of inflation and employment objectives are not met. Shortly after, Philadelphia Fed president Patrick Harker said the FOMC could raise short-term interest rates as much as twice this year. Any rate hikes by the Fed this year are viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. In the U.K., the Bank of England surprised markets by holding their key interest rate steady at 0.5% and leaving a comprehensive Quantitative Easing program unchanged. Following the 8-1 vote, Bank of England governor Mark Carney hinted that the BOE could approve fresh stimulus measures when meets again in August. GBP/USD jumped by more than 1.5% to an intraday high of 1.3463, its highest level in two weeks.  
