Title: Crude futures gain further in Asia as investors mull OPEC efforts
Date: 20160814
Content:
Investing.com - Crude futures gained further in Asia on Monday as sentiment carried over from last week on prospects for OPEC to curb or stabilize production. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in September rose 0.99% to $44.93 a barrel. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent futures gained 0.83% to $47.36 a barrel. In the week ahead, oil traders will be focusing on U.S. stockpile data on Tuesday and Wednesday for fresh supply-and-demand signals. Last week, oil futures soared for the second day in a row on Friday, ending at a three-week high as investors continued to cover short positions after Saudi Arabia's oil minister hinted that the kingdom could be open to discussions next month aimed at stabilizing the market. Crude pared some gains after a report showed the number of U.S. oil rigs rose for the seventh straight week, underling concerns over a global supply glut. Crude futures spiked nearly 5% on Thursday as investors returned to the market to cover short positions after Saudi Oil Minister Khalid al-Falih said OPEC members and non-members would discuss potential action to stabilize oil prices during a meeting next month in Algeria. OPEC announced that the 14-member bloc will meet on the sidelines of an energy conference in Algeria from September 26-28, reviving the idea of a coordinated production cap. However, market players remained skeptical that the meeting would result in any concrete actions to freeze output. An attempt to jointly freeze production levels earlier this year failed after Saudi Arabia backed out over Iran's refusal to take part of the initiative. Indications of an ongoing recovery in U.S. drilling activity kept a lid on oil prices. According to oilfield services provider Baker Hughes, the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. last week increased by 15 to 396, the seventh consecutive weekly rise and the 10th increase in 11 weeks. 
