Title: Gold down in Asia as Fed views, China CPI assessed
Date: 20160217
Content:
Investing.com - Gold slipped in Asia on Thursday as investors digested Federal Reserve views on interest rates and China consumer price data. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold futures for April delivery fell 0.12% to $1,210.00 a troy ounce. Silver futures for March delivery dropped 0.37% to $15.320 a troy ounce. Copper futures for March delivery eased 0.11% to $2.069 a pound. Consumer prices in China rose 0.5% in January month-on-month, matching expectations and at the same level as the previous month. The Federal Reserve's January meeting provided little indication that the U.S. central could accelerate its pace of tightening in the foreseeable future. "Many participants indicated that their assessment of the balance of risks associated with the timing of the beginning of policy normalization had inclined them toward keeping the federal funds rate at its effective lower bound for a longer time," the FOMC said in the minutes. "Some observed that, even with these risks taken into consideration, the federal funds rate may have already been kept at its lower bound for a sufficient length of time, and that it might be appropriate to begin policy firming in the near term." "Many participants indicated that their assessment of the balance of risks associated with the timing of the beginning of policy normalization had inclined them toward keeping the federal funds rate at its effective lower bound for a longer time," the FOMC said in the minutes. "Some observed that, even with these risks taken into consideration, the federal funds rate may have already been kept at its lower bound for a sufficient length of time, and that it might be appropriate to begin policy firming in the near term." Overnight, gold ticked up on Wednesday before the Federal Reserve's minutes. In its January monetary policy statement, the FOMC appeared uncertain on the short-term outlook of the U.S. economy by noting that it will "closely monitor economic developments," before its next meeting in mid-March. While testifying before Congress last week, Fed chair Janet Yellen warned that foreign economic developments and volatility in the global financial markets could pose risks to U.S. economic growth. It represented a stark departure from her comments in December, when Yellen emphasized that downside risks from global market turmoil had abated, clearing the way for a rate hike.  
