Title: NYMEX crude posts further gains in Asia with supply picture mixed
Date: 20160303
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices gained in Asia on Friday ahead of rig count data in the United States and a mixed supply picture. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for April delivery rose 0.67% to $34.80 a barrel. Last week, oil services firm Baker Hughes said U.S. oil rigs fell by 13 to 400 for the week ending on Feb. 19, marking the 10th straight week of such declines. The U.S. oil rig count is at its lowest level since December, 2009. Elsewhere, Iran is expected to raise its oil exports in March to around 1.65 million barrels per day from 1.5 million bpd a month earlier on the back of higher crude shipments to Europe, two industry sources told Reuters on Thursday. Overnight, crude futures remained near one-month highs, wavering during a see-saw, choppy trade on Thursday, as investors continue to gauge whether OPEC will institute a production freeze later this month in order to stem a prolonged downturn in the oil industry. On the Intercontinental Exchange, Brent crude for May delivery traded between $36.36 and $37.36 a barrel, before closing at $37.06, up 0.13 or 0.35% on the session. North Brent Sea futures have also gained more than 18% since falling below $30 a barrel on February 11. Crude prices shot up in overnight, Asian trading after bullish comments from Nigeria oil minister Emmanuel Kachikwu on the increased possibility of an OPEC-Non OPEC summit in Russia at the end of this month. The participants are expected to rekindle discussion on a joint agreement to freeze production, as prices remain sharply below levels from 20 months ago when crude peaked at $115 a barrel. Speaking at a conference in Abuja, the Nigerian capital, Kachikwu indicated that the objective of the meeting could be to agree on a compromise that would help raise oil prices back to $50 a barrel. The Nigerian minister's comments come several weeks after four nations including Russia and Saudi Arabia agreed in principle on the Doha Agreement, which would require the participants to cap output at their respective levels from January. The deal has been met with resistance from Iran, which has been looking to ramp up production following the completion of its historic nuclear deal at the start of the year. Neither Iran, nor Saudi Arabia confirmed their participation in the Russia meeting. "We will be focusing more on how we can bring in production-sharing-contracts-type elements into JV structures so that way we can begin to get them back to work,” Kachikwu said. Investors continued to digest a report from Reuters on Wednesday that Saudi Arabia has looked to initiate discussions with a host of major U.S. banks in an effort to secure a loan of up to $10 billion. At the end of last year, Saudi Arabia projected an annual 2016 deficit of 326.2 billion riyals ($87 billion) due primarily to the major downturn in oil prices. Also on Wednesday, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said in its Weekly Petroleum Status Report that U.S. commercial crude inventories for the week ending on February 26 increased by 10.4 million barrels from the previous week. At 518.0 million barrels, U.S. crude oil inventories are at historically high levels for this time of year.  
