Title: NYMEX crude weaker in Asia on profit-taking from U.S. gains
Date: 20160511
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices fell in Asia on Thursday as investors locked in gains after a drop in U.S. crude oil inventories sent futures up sharply overnight. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for June delivery dropped 0.65% to $45.93 a barrel. Overnight, U.S. crude futures staged a dramatic reversal on Wednesday reversing territory after an unexpected draw in crude stockpiles last week pushed oil prices back near 2016 yearly-highs. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude for July delivery wavered between $44.81 and $47.75, before closing at $47.54, up $2.02 or 4.44% on the day. On April 29, North Sea brent futures reached an intraday high of $48.50 to hit its highest level of the calendar year. Brent futures last eclipsed $50 a barrel in early-October. Both the international and U.S. benchmarks of crude have gained more than 10% since talks at a closely-watched OPEC and Non-OPEC summit on April 17 collapsed after Saudi Arabia demanded that Iran take part in a coordinated production freeze. On Wednesday morning, the U.S. Energy Department's Energy Information Administration (EIA) said in its Weekly Petroleum Status Report that U.S. commercial crude oil inventories decreased by 3.4 million barrels for the week ending on May 6 from the previous week. At 540.0 million barrels, U.S. crude oil inventories are at historically high levels for this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories decreased by 1.2 million barrels, while distillate fuel inventories decreased by 1.6 million barrels for the week. The massive draw defied expectations for a strong build after the American Petroleum Institute estimated a weekly increase of 3.45 million barrels on Tuesday evening after the close of trading. The draw represented the first decrease in U.S. crude inventories in six weeks. At the Cushing Oil Hub in Oklahoma, stockpiles rose as expected by 1.52 million barrels. Inventory levels at Cushing, the main delivery point for NYMEX oil, remain dangerously close to reach full storage capacity. Meanwhile, U.S. production fell by 23,000 to 8.802 million barrels per day touching down to fresh 18-month lows. Domestic output in the U.S. has now declined in 12 consecutive weeks. Many analysts attributed the draw to the devastating Canadian wildfires, which have closed a bevy of pipelines throughout Western Canada over the last week. On Wednesday, oil sands companies near Fort McMurray began to resume operations, starting with Royal Dutch Shell (LON:LON:RDSa) at the Albian mine, located roughly 50 miles north of the small Alberta town. In total, Canadian officials fear that the storms could be responsible for forcing up to 1.6 million barrels of oil offline. 
