Title: Gold gains in Asia as investors look to Fed minutes, note Japan PPI fall
Date: 20160515
Content:
Investing.com - Gold gained in Asia on Monday as investors looked ahead to more clues from the Federal Reserve on rate hike prospects and noted downbeat prices data from Japan. Gold for June delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange rose 0.20% to $1,275.25 a troy ounce. Silver futures for July delivery gained 0.11% to $17.150 a troy ounce. Also on the Comex, copper for July delivery fell 0.34% to $2.071 a pound. In Japan, PPI data for April fell 0.3% month-on-month, more than the 0.2% decline seen, and at a 4.2% drop year-on-year, more than the 3.7% decrease expected. In the week ahead, market players will be turning their attention to Wednesday’s minutes of the Federal Reserve’s March policy meeting for fresh clues on the timing of the next U.S. rate hike. U.S. inflation data will also be in focus, as investors attempt to gauge if the world's largest economy is strong enough to withstand further rate hikes in 2016. Last week, gold prices inched up modestly on Friday, but gains were limited as traders reassessed their expectations for the timing of the next U.S. rate hike following the release of better than expected U.S. retail sales and consumer sentiment data. Retail sales rose 1.3% in April, the Commerce Department said, posting its largest gain in a year, as Americans stepped up purchases of automobiles and a range of other goods. Economists expected sales to increase 0.8%. Meanwhile, the preliminary reading for consumer sentiment in May jumped to an 11-month high of 95.8, well above the expected reading of 90.0, driven by steadily rising incomes, better employment prospects and low inflation. The upbeat data suggested the economy was regaining momentum after growth almost stalled in the first quarter, bolstering the view that the Federal Reserve is still on track to raise rates before the end of the year. The Atlanta Fed raised its fourth-quarter GDP growth estimate to a 2.8% annualized rate from 2.2% as a result of last month's strong retail sales increase. A stronger U.S. dollar usually weighs on gold, as it dampens the metal's appeal as an alternative asset and makes dollar-priced commodities more expensive for holders of other currencies. Prices of the yellow metal are still up nearly 19% so far this year amid indications the Federal Reserve will take a slow and cautious approach to raising interest rates this year. Gold is sensitive to moves in U.S. rates, as a rise would lift the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding assets such as bullion. A gradual path to higher rates is seen as less of a threat to gold prices than a swift series of increases. 
