Title: Brent, NYMEX weaker as markets eye output freeze efforts, API data ahead
Date: 20160815
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prrices held weaker in Asia on Tuesday with estimates on U.S. stockpiles likely to set the tone along with continued monitoring on prospects for an output freeze by major producers. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for September delivery fell 0.59% to $45.44 a barrel. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude for October delivery was down 0.72% to $48.00 a barrel. Later Tuesday, the American Petroleum Institute will release its estimates of crude and refined product stockpiles in the U.S. last week with bearish figures last week a concern as the summer driving season, a key period for gasoline demand, heads for a close. On Wednesday, the U.S. Department of Energy will release more closely-watched figures. Overnight, U.S. crude futures soared to fresh 3-week highs after Russia energy minister Alexander Novak hinted that his nation could be open to holding discussions with major producers from the Middle East in the coming weeks, as OPEC considers whether it will be prudent to freeze output in an effort to stabilize persistently low oil prices. Crude futures extended last week's rally on Monday after reports surfaced that Russia could consider meeting with top producers from OPEC in a potential attempt to coordinate joint oil market stabilization. The comments come days after Saudi energy minister Khalid al-Falih sparked a rally last week by suggesting that OPEC producers could meet on the sidelines of next month's International Energy Forum (IEF) in Algeria, their first informal meeting since the 14-member cartel left its production ceiling unchanged at a closely-watched meeting in June. Weeks earlier, a coordinated production freeze between Saudi Arabia, Russia and two other major producers collapsed after the Saudi kingdom insisted that main rival Iran take part in any agreement that required the participants to cap output at levels from early-2016. "With regard to the cooperation with Saudi Arabia, the dialogue between our two countries is developing in a tangible way, whether in the framework of a multi-party structure or on a bilateral level," Novak told Saudi state-owned newspaper Asharq al-Awsat. "We are cooperating in the framework of consultations regarding the oil market with OPEC countries and producers from outside the organization, and are determined to continue dialogue to achieve market stability." Saudi Arabia, the world's top oil exporter, could be willing to freeze output at its current levels given that the kingdom pumped 10.67 million barrels per day of oil last month, its highest amount on record. Iran, which boosted production to 3.65 million bpd in July, has plans to increase output over the next five years until it reaches a target of 4.6 million bpd, according to comments made by energy minister Bijan Zanganeh before the Islamic Consultative Assembly, also known as the Iranian Parliament. The comments were reported by Iran's FARS News Agency. 
