Title: Gold near 2-week highs after ECB meeting
Date: 20161020
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices were trading close to two-week highs on Thursday after the European Central Bank indicated that it would wait until December to discuss tapering its asset purchase program, or the possible horizon at which stimulus might end. Gold for December delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange was trading at $1,271.75 a troy ounce at 09.14 ET. On Wednesday, gold settled up 0.6% at $1,269.90, the highest close since October 3. ECB President Mario Draghi said the bank did not discuss a possible extension of its asset purchase program beyond its scheduled end in March at its meeting. But he did indicate that an adjustment to the stimulus program could come in December, saying its assessment would benefit from new economic projections by ECB forecasters. The ECB left interest rates across the euro zone unchanged at record lows of zero earlier Thursday and kept the deposit facility rate at -0.4%. The euro fell to four-month lows against the dollar following Draghi’s remarks. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback's value against a basket of six major currencies, was boosted by the weaker euro, rising 0.35% to 98.21. Gold is priced in U.S. dollars and becomes more expensive to holders of other currencies when the dollar strengthens. Meanwhile, traders continued to mull over the prospects for a December rate hike by the Federal Reserve. Expectations for a December rate hike remained high, with markets currently pricing in around a 65% chance of a hike, according to Investing.com's Fed Rate Monitor Tool. On Wednesday, New York Fed President William Dudley said the U.S. central bank will likely raise interest rates later this year if the economy remains on its current trajectory. Gold is sensitive to moves in U.S. rates, which lift the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding assets such as bullion. Also on the Comex, silver futures for December delivery were at $17.69 a troy ounce during morning hours in the U.S., while copper futures traded at $2.094 a pound.
