Title: Gold closes flat as Doha failure pulls dollar back near eight-month lows
Date: 20160418
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold inched down on Monday in quiet trade amid a broadly lower dollar, as investors reacted to bearish news in global energy markets after a highly-anticipated meeting in Qatar ended without a comprehensive production freeze. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for June delivery traded in a tight range between $1,231.80 and $1,243.30 an ounce before settling at $1,233.50, down $1.10 or 0.09% on the day. Gold is coming off an extremely volatile week when it posted moves of at least 1% in three separate sessions, due primarily to strong indications of improving economic growth in China and the rest of the world. Despite the recent downturn, the precious metal is still up more than 16% since the start of the year and is on pace for one of its strongest opening halves in more than a decade. Gold likely gained support at $1,063.20, the low from January 4 and was met with resistance at $1,280.70, the high from Mar. 11. On Sunday, a closely-watched meeting in Doha between 18 OPEC and Non-OPEC came to a sudden halt when Saudi Arabia demanded that Iran join the group in capping output at January levels. Iranian officials refused to attend the summit, failing to budge from their stance of ramping up production to four million barrels per day, as the Persian Gulf nation strives to return to pre-sanction levels from 2007. The failure of major producers to achieve any progress in curbing a record glut of oversupply revives industry fears that oil prices will remain persistently low in the near-term future. The international and U.S. domestic benchmarks of crude fell as much as 5% in overnight, Asian trading before paring some of the losses throughout Monday's session. As a result, the U.S. Dollar Index fell more than 0.25% to an intraday low of 94.38, returning near eight-month lows from early last week. The index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, briefly moved above 95 toward the tail end of last week before settling at 94.69 on Friday. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Investors also awaited comments from a handful of policymakers from the Federal Reserve on Monday, including chair Janet Yellen after the close of trading. On Monday evening in Washington, Yellen is scheduled to make an appearance at a meeting of the Financial Stability Oversight Council. Gold is up more than 1% since Yellen sent strong indications that the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) will remain cautious with further interest rate hikes for the remainder of the year. The FOMC has left its benchmark Federal Funds Rate at a targeted range between 0.25 and 0.50% at each of its first two meetings this year. Although the Fed is not expected to raise short-term interest rates at their two-day meeting next week, the U.S. central bank could approve a 25 basis point hike at a subsequent meeting in June. Gold struggles to compete with high yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. Silver for May delivery fell 0.073 or 0.45% to $16.240 an ounce. Copper for May gained 0.011 or 0.51% to $2.163 a pound.
