Title: Gold rallies, as investors pile into safe haven amid weak global outlook
Date: 20160405
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold surged as much as $20 an ounce on Tuesday, bouncing off 5-week lows from the previous session, as broad indications of slowing economic growth in the U.S. and around the world sent investors scurrying for shelter in the safe-haven asset. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile, On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for June delivery traded in a tight range between $1,216.70 and $1,238.30 an ounce before settling at $1,229.90, up 10.60 or 0.87% on the day. Since hitting 13-month highs above $1,280 in mid-March, gold has retreated more than 3% over the last several weeks amid extreme dovish signals from Federal Reserve president Janet Yellen that the U.S. central bank will remain patient  with the timing of its next interest rate hike. It followed a two month rally when the precious metal surged nearly 15%, ending the first quarter with its strongest period in three decades. Gold likely gained support at $1,063.20, the low from January 4 and was met with resistance at $1,280.70, the high from Mar. 11. Citing low inflation, weak growth opportunities, a lack of new jobs and high debt burdens, International Monetary Fund managing director Christine Lagarde said Tuesday that she believes the global economic outlook has darkened over the last six months. While delivering an address at the Goethe Institute in Frankfurt, Lagarde also criticized top political leaders throughout the world for not enacting stronger fiscal measures to help stave off a potential recession. "There is always a good reason not to act. But that would be precisely the wrong move," Lagarde said in an interview with Bloomberg. "The growth momentum is weak, risks are probably on the rise, and confidence is sorely lacking." Separately, the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta lowered its first quarter U.S. GDP growth estimate to 0.4%, from previous forecasts of 0.7% last week. In explaining the downward revision, the Atlanta Fed cited soft vehicle sales in a report issued on Monday by the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, as well as declines in real consumer spending growth and real equipment investment growth. Gold's value as a safe-haven was underscored by further gains in the Japanese yen, which hit a 1-year high against the dollar on Tuesday at 109.95. Investors await a wave of public comments from key Federal Reserve policymakers, including Yellen on Thursday, for further signals on the pace of the Fed's current tightening cycle. Any rate hikes by the Fed this year are viewed as bearish for gold which struggles to compete with high yield bearing assets in rising rate environments The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, gained more than 0.15% to an intraday high of 94.99, before falling back to 94.56 in U.S. afternoon trading. The index remains near five-month lows. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Silver for May delivery gained 0.176 or 1.18% to $15.120 an ounce. Copper for May delivery lost 0.003 or 0.16% to $2.137 a pound.
