Title: Oil extends losses after OPEC raises supply forecast
Date: 20160912
Content:
Investing.com - Oil prices extended losses on Monday after the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries revised up its oil output forecast from non-member countries for 2017. U.S. crude was down 112 cents, or 2.44%, to $44.76 on the New York Mercantile Exchange by 0740 ET. Global benchmark Brent fell 107 cents, or 2.23%, to $46.94 on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. OPEC warned in its monthly report on Monday that oil markets will remain heavily oversupplied well into 2017 as new fields come online and U.S. shale drillers remain resilient in the face of cheap crude. Non-OPEC supply for 2017 was revised up by 350,000 barrels per day (bpd) to average 56.52 million bpd, an increase on this year. Demand for crude from OPEC will average 32.48 million bpd in 2017, the organization said, down from the previous forecast of 33.01 million bpd. Despite robust oil demand growth, the oil market will remain oversupplied this year and next, the report said. Oil prices had fallen ahead of the report, pressured lower by the stronger dollar and by increasing oil drilling activity in the United States. The dollar rose against most of the other major currencies on Monday amid renewed expectations for a hike in U.S. interest rates next week. U.S. drillers added oil rigs for a tenth week last week, according to a report from services company Baker Hughes published on Friday. Oil prices ended 4% lower on Friday as traders discounted an unexpectedly large drop in U.S. oil stockpiles as the beginning of a broader trend. Analysts said the unexpectedly large drawdown in inventories came as a tropical storm on the East Coast kept cargoes of oil and fuel from being delivered. Oil prices have fluctuated in recent weeks amid uncertainty over whether the world’s major oil producers will take steps to curb output when they meet later this month. Many market participants remain doubtful that talks will result in any agreement aimed at propping up prices.
