Title: Trump outlines plan to approve Keystone pipeline at North Dakota speech
Date: 20160526
Content:
Investing.com -- Donald Trump outlined a plan on Thursday to approve the Canadian Keystone oil pipeline project and maintain an energy independent platform for the U.S. if he is elected this November. Shortly after securing the Republican nomination for the U.S. Presidential Election on Thursday afternoon, Trump proposed a 100-day initiative he called the America First Energy Plan, aimed at creating thousands of jobs and boosting wage growth in the slumping energy industry. Speaking to a crowd of thousands at the Williston Basin Petroleum Conference in North Dakota, Trump pledged to lift moratoriums on energy production in Federally protected areas, ease restrictions on new drill technologies and repeal a host of executive actions from President Barack Obama's administration, including the Climate Action Plan and the U.S. Waters' Rule. Residents in North Dakota have been hit particularly hard by the downturn in the shale producing industry. As drilling has dried up and production has waned around the Bakken Shale formation, many economists fear that the home prices in the region could be on the verge of collapsing. In the latest ABC News-Washington Post U.S. Presidential Poll, Trump leads Democratic frontrunner Hillary Clinton by a 46-44% margin. Clinton, however, maintains a 46-43% lead in a separate poll from NBC New and The Wall St. Journal. "If Hillary Clinton is in charge, things will get much worse. She will shut down energy production across this country," Trump said. "North Dakota shows how energy exploration creates shared prosperity. Better schools. More funding for infrastructure. Higher wages. Lower unemployment." After excoriating Obama for rejecting a bill approving the construction of Keystone XL Pipeline, Trump pledged that his administration will make a formal request to TransCanada to renew its permit application for the $7 billion project. Obama veteoed the measure in November, citing environmental concerns. While Trump was pushed by a chorus of advisers to attack OPEC for depressing the price of oil over the last 20 months, the billionaire real estate appeared more diplomatic toward the world's largest cartel than many analysts expected. "We will become, and stay, totally independent of any need to import energy from the OPEC cartel or any nations hostile to our interests," Trump said.
