Title: Gold ticks up as Yellen omits timing of Fed&#39;s rate path outlook
Date: 20160606
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold futures inched up, as the dollar erased slight gains on Monday afternoon after Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen omitted any reference to the timing of the U.S. central bank's next interest rate hike in light of startlingly weak U.S. employment data last week. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, Gold for August delivery traded between $1,242.45 and $1,251.25 an ounce before settling at $1,248.25, up 5.35 or 0.43% on the session. At session-highs, gold reached its highest level in two weeks. It came one session after gold surged approximately $30 an ounce or 2.5% last Friday, as commodity traders reacted to an unexpected soft May jobs report from the U.S. Department of Labor. The rally transpired after gold plummeted by roughly 5% over a two-week period late last month, as Yellen and several other colleagues signaled that a rate hike could be imminent in the near-term future. Gold is still up by more than 15% since the start of the year, holding onto gains from the strongest first quarter of a year in more than a decade. Gold likely gained support at $1,125.00, the low from February 3 and was met with resistance at $1,304.40, the high from May 2. Speaking before an audience at the World Affairs Council in Philadelphia, Yellen cautioned economists not to place too much significance to one report, after the U.S. labor market expanded by only 38,000 in May, marking the slowest period for monthly growth since September, 2010. By comparison, Yellen noted that the economy added 2.7 million jobs in 2015 or an average of 230,000 a month. In May, economists expected to see gains of 158,000 on a seasonally-adjusted basis. Yellen also emphasized that average hourly earnings in the U.S. have increased 2.5% over the last 12 months, providing indications that wage growth may be on the verge of accelerating further. The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) has left the target range of its benchmark Federal Funds Rate unchanged at a range between 0.25 and 0.50% in each of its first three meetings this year. Last December, the FOMC abandoned a seven-year zero interest rate policy by raising interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade. "If incoming data are consistent with labor market conditions strengthening and inflation making progress toward our 2 percent objective as I expect, further gradual increases in the Federal Funds Rate are likely to be appropriate," Yellen said. Investors who are bullish on Gold are in favor of a gradual tightening of monetary policy by the Fed throughout the current cycle. Gold, which is not attached to interest rates, struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. Yellen also devoted a significant portion of her speech addressing broad areas of uncertainty within the global economy at large. Though Yellen noted that foreign headwinds have faded as the yuan has stabilized and Chinese outflows have abated in recent months, she said a potential Brexit by the U.K. from the European Union could bring "significant repercussions," to the economy. Yellen also reiterated that she expects inflation to move toward the Fed's long-term 2% goal in one to two years, as long as oil prices avoid further declines and the dollar avoids unforeseen shocks. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, rose more than 0.15% to an intraday high of 94.27, before turning negative just before the close. The index has tumbled more than 5% since early-December. Silver for July delivery gained 0.080 or 0.49% to $16.445 an ounce . Copper for July delivery added 0.004 or 0.19% to $2.117 a pound.
