Title: Oil falls as traders take profits after recent strong rally
Date: 20160425
Content:
Investing.com - Oil prices fell on Monday as traders took profits after a strong rally last week on the back of optimism that a global supply glut may start to ease in the coming months. Crude oil for June delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange was down 65 cents or 1.49% at $43.08 a barrel at 0854GMT. Global benchmark Brent was down 60 cents or 1.35% at $44.45 on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. The drop in oil prices came as traders cashed in after last week’s strong gains. Disruptions to supply from an oil worker strike in Kuwait early last week helped prop up prices after the weekend’s failed negotiations between major producers on an output freeze intended to rein in ballooning overproduction and shore up prices. Prices continued to be underpinned as hopes that declining output among non-OPEC producers would help reduce a global supply overhang. The International Energy Agency said Thursday it expects the oil market to rebalance from oversupply by next year, provided there is no major economic downturn. Also Thursday, an official from OPEC said it will discuss freezing oil production at its next meeting in June. But analysts have cautioned that freezing production near current levels is unlikely to reduce the global supply glut. Data on Wednesday showed that U.S. crude stockpiles rose slightly less than expected last week and continued to hover near record highs. The Energy Information Administration reported that U.S. crude inventories increased by 2.08 million barrels in the latest week, bringing total crude stocks to 538.6 million barrels. Crude production continued to decline, falling to an average 8.95 million barrels per day from 8.98 million in the prior week. Production has now fallen in 11 out of the past 12 weeks as low prices continue to erode shale output. On Friday, oil services company Baker Hughes said the number of U.S. oil drilling rigs, viewed as a proxy for activity in the sector, fell for the fifth straight week to the lowest level since November 2009.
