Title: Gold / Silver / Copper futures - weekly outlook: May 30 - June 3
Date: 20160529
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices sank to a more than three-month low on Friday, as the dollar spiked after Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen said a rate hike was probably appropriate in coming months. In remarks made during an appearance at Harvard University Friday afternoon, Yellen said a rate increase in the coming months "would be appropriate," if the economy and labor market continue to improve. Traders are now pricing in a 28% chance for a rate hike in June and 60% in July, according to CME Group's (NASDAQ:CME) FedWatch tool. September odds were at about 68%. Yellen’s comments lifted the U.S. dollar to its highest level in two months against a basket of major currencies on Friday, logging its fourth consecutive week of gains, on hints the Fed is getting closer to raising interest rates. A stronger U.S. dollar usually weighs on gold, as it dampens the metal's appeal as an alternative asset and makes dollar-priced commodities more expensive for holders of other currencies. Gold for August delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange tumbled to a daily low of $1,209.00 a troy ounce, a level not seen since February 22. It ended the week at $1,216.70, down $6.00, or 0.49%, for the day. For the week, futures lost $36.20, or 2.88%, the third straight weekly decline, as investors continued to factor in an increased chance of a near-term U.S. interest rate rise. Gold futures are down nearly 6% so far in May as hawkish comments from Fed officials as well as minutes of the Fed's April meeting have convinced many analysts and investors that a rate hike in June or July is a real possibility. Gold is sensitive to moves in U.S. rates, as a rise would lift the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding assets such as bullion. In the week ahead, investors will be focusing on Friday’s U.S. nonfarm payrolls report for May to gauge if the world's largest economy is strong enough to withstand further rate hikes in 2016. There is also ISM manufacturing data on Wednesday and ISM services on Friday as traders search for more clues on the timing of the next U.S. rate hike. Market players will also be focusing on the outcome of Thursday’s European Central Bank meeting as well as new quarterly forecasts that will signal whether the bank is getting closer to its inflation target. Elsewhere in metals trading, silver futures for July delivery slumped 7.4 cents, or 0.45%, on Friday to settle at $16.26 a troy ounce after hitting an intraday low of $16.14, the weakest level since April 18. On the week, silver futures slumped 23.1 cents, or 1.59%, the fourth straight weekly decline. Also on the Comex, copper for July delivery tacked on 1.1 cents, or 0.55%, on Friday to end at $2.114 a pound. For the week, New York-traded copper prices rose 5.3 cents, or 2.72%, snapping a three-week losing streak. Copper traders will be looking out for a pair of reports on China's manufacturing sector due on Tuesday, amid ongoing concerns over the health of the world's second biggest economy. The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for nearly 45% of world consumption. Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of significant events likely to affect the markets. Monday, May 30 In the euro zone, Germany and Spain are to release preliminary data on inflation. U.S. markets will be closed for the Memorial Day holiday. Tuesday, May 31 The euro zone is to publish preliminary data on consumer price inflation and Germany is to report on retail sales and the jobless rate. The U.S. is release data on personal spending and consumer confidence as well as data on business activity in the Chicago region Wednesday, June 1 China is to publish its official manufacturing and non-manufacturing PMIs and the Caixin manufacturing index. Later in the day, the U.S. Institute of Supply Management is to release data on manufacturing activity. Thursday, June 2 The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will meet in Vienna on Thursday to review their output strategy. The European Central Bank is to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish its rate statement, which outlines economic conditions and the factors affecting the monetary policy decision. The U.S. is to release the monthly ADP nonfarm payrolls report as well as weekly data on initial jobless claims. Friday, June 3 The U.S. is to round up the week with the closely watched nonfarm payrolls report as well as data on the trade balance. Later in the day, the ISM non-manufacturing index and data on factory orders is due. 
