Title: NYMEX crude down in Asia as investors show caution ahead of U.K. vote
Date: 20160620
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices fell on Tuesday in Asia as investors turned cautious ahead of the Brexit vote this week even as the "Remain" camp looks set to win. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for August delivery eased 0.30% to $49.81 a barrel. Later Tuesday, the American Petroleum Institute will release its estimates of U.S. crude and refined product stocks at the end of last week. Overnight, crude rose sharply on Monday, amid easing concerns of a potential U.K. departure from the European Union, as Brent futures closed above $50 a barrel for the first time in five sessions. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude for August delivery wavered between $49.37 and $50.67 a barrel, before settling at $50.60, up 1.43 or 2.91% on the day. In Monday's session, crude prices and global equities soared as the "Remain" campaign in the U.K. continued to gain momentum ahead of this week's controversial Brexit referendum. It came after officials suspended campaigning for two straight days last week following the tragic murder of Labour Party parliament member Jo Cox. Based on live odds, there is a 76% chance the Remain campaign will prevail, according to British sportsbook  Ladbrokes  (LON:LON:LAD) at odds of 1-4. Alternatively, Ladbrokes said there is a 24% chance voters will choose Leave at odds of 3-1. A host of major global oil companies have issued ominous warnings of the consequences that could ensue from a U.K. departure from the EU. A "Leave" vote could result in the potential loss of free travel arrangements by UK workers employed by euro area oil companies, while leading to heightened trade barriers between the UK and major nations in the EU. Elsewhere, Platt's Oil reported that numerous countries in the Persian Gulf continue to issue debt at unprecedented levels in an effort to ramp up investment projects worldwide. Before the end of the year, Saudi Arabia could issue as much as $15 billion in bonds on international markets, according to Platt's. Over the last two months, Saudi Deputy Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has also reportedly offered a 5% stake in state-run oil company Aramco, which could raise an additional $100 billion in equity. In Nigeria, the naira plummeted more than 30% on Monday after the government removed its currency peg against the dollar in a long-term plan to jumpstart the nation's dormant economy. Last month, Nigerian oil production fell by more than 150,000 barrels per day amid a series of attacks on oil facilities in the Southern Delta region by rogue militant groups. 
