Title: Gold opens 2016 strongly amid Saudi-Iran tension, weak China data
Date: 20160104
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold kicked off 2016 with a resounding opening to the new year, as investors reacted to a move by Saudi Arabia to cut commercial ties with Iran and weaker than expected manufacturing data in China. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for February delivery traded in a broad range between $1,061.00 and $1,083.00 an ounce, before settling at $1,075.60, up 15.30 or 1.44% on the session. At one point, gold reached its highest level in a week. The precious metal has posted three consecutive winning sessions following last Wednesday's precipitous drop on the second to last trading day of the year. Gold likely gained support at $1,050.50, the low from December 17 and was met with resistance at $1,098.80, the high from Dec. 28. Gold surged in overnight, Asian trading as traders digested news of mounting geopolitical instability in the Middle East, after a swarm of protesters stormed the Saudi embassy over the weekend in response to the kingdom's execution of a prominent Shiite cleric. Relations between Saudi Arabia and Iran have soured since the execution of cleric Nimr al-Nimr and 46 others on Saturday for reportedly speaking out against the Saudi royal family. The aftershocks were felt in the first trading session of the year, as Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates and Sudan joined Riyadh by severing or curtailing ties with Iran. Citing Iran's "blatant and dangerous interference," in the region, Bahrain decided on Monday to cut off diplomatic relations with Tehran. Saudi Arabia's civil aviation authority, meanwhile, said it has canceled all flights to and from Iran, the Associated Press reported. Gold is viewed as a safe-haven for investors in periods of mounting geopolitical instability. Gold prices fell back slightly, hours later after China reported weaker than expected manufacturing data last month, sparking fresh concerns of slowing growth in the world's second-largest economy. In December, the China Caixin PMI index fell by 0.4 points to 48.2, considerably below analysts' forecasts for a 49.0 reading. Any reading below 50 provides indications of contraction in the manufacturing sector. "Data suggested that client demand was weak both at home and abroad, with new export business falling for the first time in three months in December," said Markit, which conducts the survey, in a release. "As a result, manufacturers continued to trim their staff numbers and reduce their purchasing activity in line with lower production requirements." Worldwide commodity prices slumped to multi-year lows throughout 2015, as demand for metals weakened substantially, amid China's transition from a planned to consumer-led economy. Despite bouncing off six-year lows from early-December, gold ended the year down approximately 10% from its opening level of $1,185 an ounce. The precious metal has also been under pressure by the start of the Federal Reserve's first tightening cycle in a decade, which is expected to underpin investor demand for the dollar. Over the weekend, Fed vice chairman Stanley Fischer said a pair of financial tools aimed at stabilizing its benchmark Federal Funds Rate have worked, easing some of the U.S. central bank's concerns related to its historic rate hike in mid-December. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, gained more than 0.35% to an intraday high of 99.30, its highest level in two and a half weeks. The dollar was on pace for its sixth straight winning session. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Silver for March delivery gained 0.072 or 0.52% to 13.875 an ounce. Copper for March delivery plunged 0.057 or 2.66% to 2.081 a pound.
