Title: Gold prices up in Asia as tussles over Brexit plans grow sharper
Date: 20160628
Content:
Investing.com - Gold gained in Asia on Wednesday as investors noted continued friction over the timing of Britain's expected notification to exit the European Union. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for August delivery rose 0.33% to $1,322.30 a troy ounce. Silver futures for August delivery jumped 1.17% to $18.098 a troy ounce, while copper futures fell 0.83% to $2.163 a pound. The pound eased on Wednesday in Asia after U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron told Europe’s leaders that they will have to offer the U.K. more control over immigration at the end of a fractious day where politicians across Europe clashed over the meaning and consequences of last week’s Brexit vote. Overnight, gold fell slightly on Tuesday taking a pause from the Brexit-inspired rally, as investors looked to lock into profits days after the precious metal surged to 27-month highs. In the frenzied days since last week's surprising decision by voters in the U.K. to approve a referendum paving the way for a departure from the EU, Gold has largely avoided a major sell-off, as traders continue to seek shelter in safe-haven assets. On Monday, gold remained supportive in broad risk-off trade while investors took part in a flight to safety from plunging euro area bank stocks. Consequently, Gold has become a preferred option for rattled investors along with low-risk government bonds and currencies such as the U.S. Dollar, Japanese Yen and Swiss Franc. While addressing Parliament on Monday, U.K. prime minister David Cameron said that he will not immediately invoke Article 50, a provision of the Lisbon Treaty, which initiates a two-year process for a member state to leave the European bloc. Upon his arrival in Brussels, Cameron told reporters that he would like the process of Britain's departure from the EU to be as "constructive as possible," to avoid complicating the relationship with their key trade partners. "These countries are our neighbors, our friends, our allies, our partners and I very much hope we’ll seek the closest possible relationship in terms of trade and cooperation and security, because that is good for us and that is good for them. And that’s the spirit in which the discussions I think will be held today," Cameron said. Meanwhile, top leaders from throughout the euro area appear to be adopting a hard-line stance against the U.K. While addressing the Bundestag, Germany chancellor Angela Merkel rejected a proposal from former London mayor Boris Johnson which would enable Britain to receive access to the European single market while simultaneously enacting a measure that would severely restrict immigration into the U.K. In an interview with CNN, Italy prime minister Matteo Renzi echoed the sentiments. 
