Title: Gold / Silver / Copper futures - weekly outlook: September 19 - 23
Date: 20160918
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices slumped to a more than two-week low on Friday, as a broadly stronger U.S. dollar and jitters ahead of next week's highly anticipated Federal Reserve policy meeting weighed. Gold for December delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange sank to a daily low of $1,309.20 a troy ounce, a level not seen since September 1. It ended at $1,310.20 by close of trade on Friday, down $7.80, or 0.59%. For the week, the yellow metal ended with a loss of $21.20, or 1.83%, as markets continued to speculate over the timing of the next Fed rate hike. The greenback jumped on Friday after data showing faster-than-expected growth in U.S. consumer prices helped support the case for a Fed rate hike later this year. The Labor Department said the consumer price index rose 0.2% in August, compared to expectations for a 0.1% gain. Year-over-year, consumer prices increased 1.1%. Excluding the volatile food and energy categories, so-called core consumer prices climbed 0.3%. The core CPI increased 2.3% in the 12 months through August. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback’s strength against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, touched a daily peak of 96.11 in wake of the inflation data, the most since September 1, before ending at 96.06, up almost 0.9% on the day. A stronger U.S. dollar usually weighs on gold, as it dampens the metal's appeal as an alternative asset and makes dollar-priced commodities more expensive for holders of other currencies. Market participants were now eyeing the Fed’s policy meeting on September 20-21 amid ongoing uncertainty over a potential rate hike. Investors are currently pricing in just a 12% chance of a rate hike next week, according to Investing.com's Fed Rate Monitor Tool. For December, odds stood at around 55%. The precious metal is sensitive to moves in U.S. rates, which lift the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding assets such as bullion, while boosting the dollar in which it is priced. Also on the Comex, silver futures for December delivery dropped 17.9 cents, or 0.94%, on Friday to settle at $18.86 a troy ounce. The contract fell to $18.71 earlier, the lowest level since September 1. On the week, silver lost 34.3 cents, or 2.61%. Elsewhere in metals trading, copper for December delivery eased up 0.1 cents, or 0.02%, on Friday to end at $2.160 a pound after touching a daily peak of $2.168, the most since August 22. For the week, New York-traded copper prices surged 7.1 cents, or 3.02%, after Chinese economic data during the week suggested stronger growth in the next few months. The General Administration of Customs said on Tuesday that industrial production rose at an annualized rate of 6.3% in August, beating expectations for a 6.1% increase. Retail sales and fixed asset investment also handily beat expectations. The Asian nation is the world’s largest copper consumer, accounting for almost 40% of world consumption last year. In the week ahead, investors will be looking to Wednesday’s highly-anticipated Federal Reserve policy meeting. Elsewhere, market participants will be awaiting a monetary policy announcement from the Bank of Japan on Wednesday, amid growing expectations for further stimulus. Ahead of the coming week, Investing.com has compiled a list of these and other significant events likely to affect the markets. Monday, September 19 Financial markets in Japan will be closed for a national holiday. Tuesday, September 20 The Reserve Bank of Australia is to publish the minutes of its latest monetary policy meeting, giving investors insight into how officials view the economy and their policy options. The U.S. is to report on building permits and housing starts. Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz is to speak at an event in Quebec. Wednesday, September 21 The Bank of Japan is to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish its rate statement, which outlines economic conditions and the factors affecting the monetary policy decision. The announcement is to be followed by a press conference. Later in the day, the Federal Reserve is to announce its monetary policy decision and publish data on its economic projections for the coming two years. Thursday, September 22 The Reserve Bank of New Zealand is to announce its benchmark interest rate and publish its rate statement. Financial markets in Japan will be closed for a national holiday. The U.S. is to release data on initial jobless claims and existing home sales. European Central Bank President Mario Draghi is to speak at an event in Frankfurt. Friday, September 23 The euro zone is to release data on private sector activity. Canada is to round up the week with data on retail sales and inflation. 
