Title: Crude soars to 2016-high amid report of consensus on Russia-Saudi freeze
Date: 20160412
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude futures surged to fresh 2016-yearly highs on Tuesday, extending sharp gains from the previous two sessions, amid strong indications that Russia and Saudi Arabia have reached a consensus on a comprehensive production freeze ahead of a highly-anticipated meeting over the weekend in Qatar. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for May delivery traded in a broad range between $40.09 and $42.25 a barrel, before settling at $42.10, up 1.74 or 4.30% on the session. With the sharp gains, U.S. crude futures have closed higher in three straight sessions and five of the last six. Over the last week, the front month contract for WTI crude has soared by more than 16%. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for June delivery wavered between $42.56 and $44.80 a barrel, before closing at $44.62, up 1.79 or 4.18% on the trading day. Much like its U.S. counterpart, North Brent Sea futures have jumped nearly 20% over the last week and 13% since last Friday. Since falling to their lowest levels in more than a decade in mid-February, both the international and U.S. domestic benchmarks of crude have jumped by more than 35%. Crude staged its latest rally after reports circulated from Russia news outlet Interfax that Russia and Saudi Arabia reached an accord on a deal in which both major producers will cap their daily output at near-record levels. Citing diplomatic sources, the Russian news agency also report that Saudi Arabia's decision will also not be dependent on any resolution by Iran to take part in the negotiations. Previously, officials from the kingdom have maintained that it will only cap production if Iran follows suit. Iran oil minister Bijan Zangeneh has described the Saudi position as "ridiculous." Iranian officials are resistant to any deal that will force the Persian Gulf nation to freeze output at its current level, as it continues to ramp up production toward pre-sanction levels from 2007. Crude has rebounded sharply from mid-February lows since Russia, Saudi Arabia and two other OPEC producers agreed to the framework of an OPEC-Non OPEC production freeze in an effort to bolster persistently low prices. Despite the recent upswing, oil is still down more than 60% from its June, 2014 level when it peaked at $115 a barrel. More than 15 major producers are expected to attend Sunday's meeting in Doha. Elsewhere, energy traders reacted to a bullish report from the U.S. Energy Department on the heightened possibility for increased demand growth before the end of the year. In its latest Short Term Energy Outlook (STEO), the Energy Information Administration said it expects global demand growth to increase by 10,000 barrels per day for the remainder of 2016 to 1.16 million bpd. By the end of 2017, the EIA anticipates that demand growth worldwide will increase to 1.33 million bpd, up slightly from previous estimates of 1.21 million bpd. In terms of supply, the EIA expects U.S. average production to hover around 8.6 million bpd this year before falling to 8.0 million bpd in 2017. For both years, the EIA lowered their supply forecasts by 0.1 million bpd. Last year, U.S. average output eclipsed 9.3 million bpd, the highest level in more than 40 years. Investors await the release of the American Petroleum Institute's weekly crude inventory report after the bell for further indications on a potential widening in the supply-demand imbalance nationwide. A week earlier, U.S. crude stockpiles fell by 4.9 million barrels in the week ended April 1. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, gained more than 0.15% to an intraday high of 94.37. On Monday, the index dipped below 94 to hit an eight-month low. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates.
