Title: Brent, NYMEX fall in Asia as output freeze outlook ebbs; U.S. rigs weigh
Date: 20160911
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices fell furtther on Monday in Asia with the outlook for a freeze on output by major producers looking increasingly unlikely this month though comments at the weekend suggested talks are still going on. U.S. crude oil for delivery in October dropped 1.79% to $45.06 a barrel. On the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for November delivery eased 1.60% to $47.24 a barrel. OPEC members are set to discuss a potential production cap at an informal meeting on the sidelines of an energy conference in Algeria between September 26-28. But many market participants remain doubtful that talks will result in any agreement aimed at propping up prices. Instead, most believe that oil producers will continue to monitor the market and possibly postpone freeze talks to the official OPEC meeting in Vienna on November 30. An attempt to jointly freeze production levels earlier this year failed after Saudi Arabia backed out over Iran's refusal to take part of the initiative. Still, Algeria's energy minister has said there is a consensus among OPEC and non-OPEC members aboutthe need to stabilize the oil market to support prices, state news agency APS reported on Saturday. Several markets in Asia and elsewhere around the globe are shut on Monday to mark Eid al-Adha, including Singapore and Indonesia. Last week, oil prices fell 4% on Friday as the dollar rose and traders discounted an unexpectedly large drop in U.S. oil stockpiles as the beginning of a broader trend. As well, on Friday, data showed drillers added seven oil rigs in the week to Sept. 9, bringing the total rig count in the U.S. up to 414, according to Baker Hughes. Oil had ended 4% higher on Thursday after the U.S. Energy Information Administration reported that crude stocks dropped 14.5 million barrels last week to 511.4 million barrels. It was the largest weekly decline since January 1999. Total commercial stockpiles of crude oil and refined products fell by 13.7 million barrels. Earlier in the week, industry group the American Petroleum Institute said that U.S. oil inventories fell 12.1 million barrels in the week ended September 2. But analysts said the unexpectedly large drawdown in inventories came as a tropical storm on the East Coast kept cargoes of oil and fuel from being delivered.  
