Title: NYMEX crude down in Asia as Iran supplies stoke worries
Date: 20160119
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices dropped sharply in Asia on Wednesday with the advent of an expected surge in Iranian crude on the market the main focus. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for March delivery dropped 2.38% to $28.87 a barrel. Brent crude futures on the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE) fell 1.87% to $28.28 a barrel. Investors await the release of the American Petroleum Institute's weekly inventory report on Wednesday, delayed a day because of the Martin Luther King Jr holiday in the U.S. Seprate data from the U.S. Department of Energy will be released on Thursday. On Tuesday morning, China released preliminary data that showed demand for crude in 2015 surged by 2.5% on an annual basis to 10.32 million bpd. The figures may help ease persistent worries of moderate demand growth in the face of near-record supply. Overnight, U.S. crude futures closed significantly lower on Tuesday on a volatile day of trading, as investors continued to digest Iran's historic return to global energy markets and reports of record annual demand in China while oil prices remained at near 12-year lows. On the ICE, Brent crude for March delivery traded between $28.61 and $30.25 a barrel before closing at $28.84, up 0.29 or 1.02% on the day. In spite of the slight gains, North Crude sea futures have still plummeted by more than 22% in January. Investors continued to react to Saturday's Implementation Day announcement after a report from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) found that the Persian Gulf state completed the steps necessary to restrict its nuclear testing program. The assessment helped unlock a bevy of long-term economic sanctions that limited Iranian exports to around 1 million barrels per day, significantly below pre-sanction levels above 3 million bpd in 2011. Iran is expected to ramp up exports by 500,000 bpd before expanding the total to 1 million bpd in six to seven months. Within a year, Iran is optimistic that its export total could approach 3.4 million bpd. Iran's economy has suffered mightily over the last decade, constrained by heavy sanctions that limited the nation from exporting crude to only a handful of countries approved by a group of Western Powers. In recent months, however, Iran has reportedly lined up customers to purchase about 300,000 bpd, as financial restrictions continue to be eased. Short-term fluctuations in crude prices over the next few weeks could depend on how quickly Iran unloads ultralight oil stored in offshore tankers onto markets through Asia and Europe. Iranian exporters will likely trade with traditional buyers from Asian buyers in India, while also sending approximately 200,000 bpd to European purchasers from Greece, Spain and Italy, according to the Financial Times. Iran's return to global markets is viewed as bearish for crude, which has fallen by more than 70% in value over the last 19 months amid a glut of oversupply throughout the world.  
