Title: Gold holds gains after mixed U.S. housing data
Date: 20161019
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices held onto solid gains on Wednesday as a batch of mixed data on the U.S. housing market kept up pressure on the dollar. Gold for December delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange was trading at $1,271.85 a troy ounce at 8.44 ET, up $9.05 or 0.7%. U.S. housing starts fell to a one-and-a-half year low in September, but a jump in the construction of single-family homes pointed to underlying strength in the housing market. The Commerce Department said U.S. housing starts unexpectedly slumped 9.0% to hit 1.047 million units last month. That compared to forecasts for an increase of 2.5%. However, single-family home building, which comprises the largest share of the residential housing market, jumped 8.1% in September, the most since February, pointing to sustained strength in the housing market. The number of building permits issued rose 6.3% to 1.225 million units last month, up from 1.152 million in August. The dollar continued to hold below seven-month highs against the other major currencies following the reports. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the greenback's value against a basket of six major currencies, was last at 97.88. Gold is priced in U.S. dollars and becomes cheaper to holders of other currencies when the dollar weakens. The dollar has come under pressure in recent sessions amid speculation over whether the world's largest economy is strong enough to withstand an increase in borrowing costs before the end of the year. Markets are currently pricing in around a 64% chance of a rate hike at December's meeting, according to Investing.com's Fed Rate Monitor Tool. On Monday, Fed Vice Chair Stanley Fischer said the U.S. central bank is "very close" to its employment and inflation targets, while Boston Fed President Eric Rosengren said the current levels of jobs and inflation support the case for a rate increase soon. Gold is sensitive to moves in U.S. rates, which lift the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding assets such as bullion. Elsewhere in metal trading, silver futures for December delivery were at $17.73 a troy ounce and copper futures traded at $2.103 a pound.
