Title: Crude falls mildly amid stronger dollar, ahead of API inventory data
Date: 20160503
Content:
Investing.com -- Oil prices moved slightly lower on Tuesday, amid a recovering dollar, as crude futures reversed course from overnight trading ahead of the release of fresh inventory data after the close of trading. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for June delivery traded in a broad range between $43.38 and $45.34 a barrel, before settling at $43.66, down 1.12 or 2.50% on the session. With the mild losses, U.S. crude futures suffered their second straight losing session, continuing their retreat from yearly highs near $47 a barrel last week. WTI crude has rallied by more than 50% from its level in mid-February when it plunged to 13-year lows at $26.05 a barrel. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for July delivery wavered between $44.63 and $46.41 a barrel, before closing at $45.02, down 0.81 or 1.78%. North Sea brent futures are also down moderately from five-month highs hit last week when the international benchmark of crude surged above $48 a barrel. Investors await the release of the American Petroleum Institute's weekly crude stockpile report after the close of trading for further indications on the supply-demand balance on domestic energy markets. On Monday, oil data and market intelligence firm Genscape, Inc. reported a build of 871,000 barrels at the Cushing Oil Hub in Oklahoma. Cushing, the main delivery point of NYMEX oil, is perilously close to reaching full storage capacity. A number of prominent energy analysts, however, are optimistic that the massive stockpile build will level as Non-OPEC production continues to wane. Last week, the U.S. Energy Information Agency said U.S. production for the week ending on April 22 fell sharply by 15,000 barrels per day to 8.938 million bpd, dropping to fresh 18-month lows. The recent declines in U.S. output add support to forecasts of deep reductions in output nationwide, as high-cost U.S. shale producers continue to be forced offline due to prohibitively low oil prices. Over the weekend, IEA head Faith Birol said he expects production outside OPEC to fall by as much as 700,000 bpd in 2016, an amount which would represent the steepest decline in 25 years. Elsewhere, sources told Reuters that Saudi Arabia and Iran appear split on a long-term strategy aimed at stabilizing global oil market prices. The Persian Gulf rivals were reportedly unable to agree on a consensus at an OPEC Board of Governors meeting in Vienna on Monday. In April, OPEC production jumped to 32.64 million bpd, less than 0.2 million bpd from OPEC's all-time record high. OPEC meets next at a semi-annual meeting on June 2. Despite the recent upswing, crude prices are still down by more than 40% since OPEC roiled markets with a strategic decision to abandon price stability for market share in November, 2014. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, gained more than 0.25% to an intraday high of 92.92. The index, which is down more than 7% since early-December, is on pace to halt a six-day losing streak. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates.
