Title: Gold holds early gains, copper slumps after weak February China trade
Date: 20160307
Content:
Investing.com - Gold held early gains despite a slump in China's February trade figures that was deeper than expected even when factoring in Chinese New Year holidays. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for April delivery rose 0.35% to $1,268.40 a troy ounce. Silver futures for March delivery fell 0.71% to $15.570 a troy ounce, while copper futures for March slumped 1.58% to $2.241 a pound. In China, trade data showed exports slumped 25.4% in February year-on-year, well below the 12.5% drop expected, and imports declined 13.8%, also below the 10% drop seen for a trade balance surplus of $32.59 billion, far short of the $50.15 billion expected. China is second to India in gold imports. "We suspect that the drop in export growth largely reflects seasonal distortions due to annual shifts in the timing of Chinese New Year," Capital Economics said in a note to clients. "In 2015, the holiday fell unusually late which meant that more of the pre-holiday rush to meet orders and less of the post holiday disruptions took place in February, causing exports to jump 48.9% y/y. This will have provided an unflattering base for comparison for last month’s figures. This base effect should reverse this month – exports fell 14.60% y/y in March 2015 – and result in a sharp rebound in export growth." Earlier in Japan, a busy data day sees the current account for January come in at an unadjusted surplus of ¥521 billion, narrower than the surplus of ¥719 billion seen As well, fourth quarter GDP dropped 0.3%, less than the fall of 0.4% quarter-on-quarter seen and down 1.1% year-on-year, less than the 1.5% drop expected. In Australia, the NAB business confidence survey for February came in at plus-3, unchanged from the previous reading revised up from plus-2, along with the NAB business survey which reached plus-8, above the previous of plus-5. Earlier, comments from Australia moved the currency slightly down. Weak wage growth means less pressure on inflation and likely accommodative monetary policy, Reserve Bank of Australia Deputy Governor Philip Lowe said Tuesday. "It is possible that wage outcomes will remain very subdued even in countries with strong labor markets. If this turns out to be the case then it is likely that inflation rates will also continue to be very low and monetary policy very accommodative," he said. Overnight, gold fell slightly on Monday to halt a three-day winning streak, but remained near 13-month highs, as investors digested gloomy U.S. wage growth data from last week, which could compel the Federal Reserve to slow its pace of tightening over the next several months. Last Friday, gold ended the week by surging more than $15 an ounce to hit an intraday high of $1,279.90, its highest level since the early portions of 2015. Gold is coming off its strongest month in more than a decade and is on pace for its most profitable opening quarter in nearly 30 years. On Monday, investors continued to react to Friday's U.S. jobs report for the month of February when average hourly earnings fell by 0.1%, representing their first monthly decline in more than a year. It came a month after wages surged by 0.5% in January, after a host of U.S. states instituted significant minimum wage hikes at the start of the year. In recent years the Fed has kept a close eye on wage growth, as hourly earnings among production and nonsupervisory workers have fallen precipitously from a pre-Financial Crisis peak above 4%. The subdued wage gains could prompt the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) to lower its near term economic outlook when it convenes for a two-day meeting next week. At the meeting, the FOMC will release its quarterly dot plot, which includes projections on its benchmark Federal Funds Rate, inflation and GDP growth over the next two years. In December, the FOMC increased the target range on the Fed Funds Rate by 25 basis points to 0.25-0.50%, approving its first interest rate hike in nearly a decade. Investors may receive a clearer picture on the Fed's current monetary policy stance on Monday afternoon following speeches from Fed governors Lael Brainard and Stanley Fischer at a banking conference in Washington. The probability of a March rate hike remained at zero on Monday, according to the CME Group's (NASDAQ:NASDAQ:CME) Fed Watch tool, down from 24.6% last week before the release of the jobs report. There is a 31.6% chance the Fed will raise rates next in June, the CME Group reported, up from 25.7% on Friday. Any rate hikes this year are viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in periods of rising rate environments. Elsewhere, investors reacted to a wave of headlines in China after premier Li Keqiang opened the National People's Congress over the weekend by lowering the nation's annual growth target slightly to 6.5-7%. In addition, the People's Bank of China (PBOC) announced Monday that its foreign exchange reserves fell to $3.20 trillion in February, marking the fourth consecutive monthly decline. It came as PBOC vice chair Yi Gang attempted to reassure investors that capital outflows remain manageable, even as cross border losses continue to escalate.  
