Title: NYMEX crude falls in Asia, Brent quoted flat as OPEC, U.S. rigs eyed
Date: 20161117
Content:
Investing.com - Crude prices dropped in Asia on Friday with all eyes on OPEC to conclude terms at the end of the month for announced plans to trim output and weekly U.S. rig count data loomed. Crude oil for December delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange fell 1.06% to 44.94 a barrel. Brent oil for January delivery on the ICE Futures Exchange in London was quoted flat at $46.04 a barrel. Last week, oil services firm Baker Hughes said the number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. last week rose by 2 to 452, the 21st increase out of the last 24 weeks. Overnight, oil prices were higher during early New York trading on Thursday, reversing earlier losses after Saudi Energy Minister Khalid al-Falih said he was optimistic that OPEC would formalize a preliminary oil output deal reached in Algeria in September. He said talks were ongoing with Qatar's Energy Minister Mohammed al-Sada, who had invited him to Qatar to continue discussions. His comments came after Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak said on Wednesday that Russia is ready to support OPEC's decision on an oil output freeze and sees big chances that the oil producers' group can agree on the terms of the freeze by November 30. He also said there was a possibility he could meet Saudi Arabia's Energy Minister Khalid al-Falih at a gas conference in Doha this week. The oil group reached an agreement to cap output to a range of 32.5 million to 33.0 million barrels per day in talks held in Algeria in late September. However, OPEC said it won’t finalize details on individual output quotas until its next official meeting in Vienna on November 30. The cartel pumped 33.64 million barrels of crude per day in October. The figures added to skepticism over the implementation of a planned deal by OPEC to limit production. The possibility that producers could walk away empty-handed from the November meeting looms large after Iraq, Iran, Nigeria and Libya all signaled they might not take part in the proposed production cut deal. Russia’s unclear stance is also fueling uncertainty. 
