Title: Gold edges lower as Turkish coup jitters subside
Date: 20160718
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices edged lower in North American trade on Monday, as investors unwound safe-haven trades in the wake of a failed military coup in Turkey. The Turkish government said on Sunday it was in full control of the country and economy after thwarting an apparent military coup to topple President Tayyip Erdogan late on Friday. Authorities widened a crackdown on suspected supporters of the failed coup over the weekend, taking the number of people rounded up in the armed forces and judiciary to 6,000. Gold initially turned higher in post-settlement trade late on Friday as news of the coup attempt spooked investors. Gold for August delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange dipped 40 cents, or 0.03%, to trade at $1,327.10 a troy ounce by 12:38GMT, or 8:38AM ET. Prices were also weighed after a number of upbeat U.S. economic reports last week suggested that economic growth regained speed in the second quarter. The bullish data could allow the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates later this year, but much will depend on policymakers' assessment of the impact on the U.S. economy of Britain's June 23 vote to leave the European Union. Interest rate futures are currently pricing in a 43% chance of a rate hike by December. Gold is sensitive to moves in U.S. rates. Despite recent losses, gold is up nearly 25% so far this year, as speculation mounted that central banks around the world will step up monetary stimulus to counteract the negative economic shock from the Brexit vote. Expectations of monetary stimulus tend to benefit gold, as the metal is seen as a safe store of value and inflation hedge. In the week ahead, market players will be focusing on the outcome of Thursday’s European Central Bank meeting to see if policymakers will step up monetary stimulus to counteract the negative economic shock from the Brexit vote. Also on the Comex, silver futures for September delivery sank 25.8 cents, or 1.28%, to trade at $19.90 a troy ounce during morning hours in New York, while copper futures slumped 2.1 cents, or 0.96%, to $2.212 a pound. 
