Title: Gold turns higher after Bank of England expands stimulus
Date: 20160804
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices erased overnight losses in North American trade on Thursday, turning higher after the Bank of England delivered its first rate cut in seven years and announced more measures to stimulate the economy in a bid to ward off recession following Britain's vote in June to leave the European Union. The BoE voted unanimously to reduce its benchmark interest rate by 25 basis points to a record-low 0.25%, as widely expected. The central bank also raised the amount of asset purchases financed by the issuance of central bank reserves to £435 billion from £375 billion. The Monetary Policy Committee will buy £60 billion of government bonds over six months and as much as £10 billion pounds of corporate bonds in the next 18 months. Prices received an additional boost after data showed that the number of people who filed for unemployment assistance in the U.S. last week rose unexpectedly to 269,000. Gold for December delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange tacked on $6.05, or 0.44% to trade at $1,370.75 a troy ounce by 12:49GMT, or 8:49AM ET, after being down by as much as 0.7% at a session low of $1,355.10 earlier. Investors now looked ahead to Friday's key U.S. nonfarm payrolls report for July to gauge the health of the world's largest economy and whether it is strong enough to warrant an interest rate hike in the coming months. The consensus forecast is that the data will show jobs growth of 175,000, following an increase of 287,000 in June, the unemployment rate is forecast to hold steady at 4.9%, while average hourly earnings are expected to rise 0.2% after gaining 0.1% a month earlier. An upbeat employment report will point to an improving economy and support the case for higher interest rates in the months ahead, while a weak report would add to uncertainty over the economic outlook and push prospects of tighter monetary policy further off the table. Fed funds futures are currently pricing in just a 12% chance of a rate hike by September. December odds were at around 40%, compared to 53% at the start of last week. The yellow metal has been well supported in recent sessions as a string of disappointing U.S. economic reports prompted market players to push back expectations for the next U.S. rate hike. Gold is sensitive to moves in U.S. rates. A gradual path to higher rates is seen as less of a threat to gold prices than a swift series of increases. For the year, the precious metal is up nearly 28%, boosted by concerns over global growth and expectations of monetary stimulus. 
