Title: Surprise U.S. crude build, record-high Saudi output weighs on oil
Date: 20160811
Content:
Investing.com - Oil prices pushed lower in European trade on Thursday, extending sharp overnight losses as a surprise crude build in the U.S. combined with record-high Saudi Arabian production weighed on sentiment. Crude oil for September delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange fell to a session low of $41.22 a barrel, the weakest level since August 5. It was last at $41.29 by 07:55GMT, or 3:55AM ET, down 42 cents, or 1.01%. On Wednesday, New York-traded oil futures sank $1.06, 2.48%, after data showed that U.S. crude supplies rose for the third straight week. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, crude oil inventories rose by a surprising 1.1 million barrels last week to 523.6 million, which the EIA considered to be “historically high levels for this time of year”. That overshadowed a 2.8-million-barrel drop in gasoline inventories, which was much more than the expected 1.0-million-barrel decline. WTI crude futures are nearly 18% lower from their 2016 highs above $50 a barrel scaled in early June, as signs of an ongoing recovery in U.S. drilling activity added to worries about a global glut of crude. Elsewhere, on the ICE Futures Exchange in London, Brent oil for October delivery shed 35 cents, or 0.75%, to trade at $43.70 a barrel after touching a daily low of $43.63. A day earlier, Brent prices lost 93 cents, or 2.07%, after data showed that Saudi Arabia boosted its output to a record high in July. The kingdom pumped 10.67 million barrels per day last month, a sign that OPEC's largest producer remained focused on market share rather than tackling a supply glut by curbing production. OPEC said that output from its own 14 members increased by 46,000 barrels a day to 33.11 million in July, adding to worries over a global supply glut. Meanwhile, market players remained skeptical that an upcoming meeting among OPEC producers would result in any concrete actions to freeze output. The oil cartel will hold an informal meeting on the sidelines of the International Energy Forum conference in Algeria next month to discuss setting new limits for oil production in an effort to stabilize the market. An attempt to jointly freeze production levels earlier this year failed after Saudi Arabia backed out over Iran's refusal to take part of the initiative. London-traded Brent futures are down almost 15% since peaking at $52.80 in early June, as prospects of increased exports from Middle Eastern and North African producers, such as Iraq, Nigeria and Libya, added to concerns that a glut of oil products will cut demand for crude by refiners. Investors looked ahead to a monthly report from the International Energy Agency due later in the session to further gauge global supply and demand levels. 
