Title: Gold prices gain in Asia in early trade as data trail eyed
Date: 20160223
Content:
Investing.com - Gold edged higher in early Asia on Wednesday with investors following the U.S> data trail closely for likely indications on U.S> interest rates. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for April delivery gained 0.43% to $1,231.40 a troy ounce. Silver futures for March delivery rose 0.16% to $15.350 a troy ounce, while copper futures fell 0.14% to $2.098 a pound. Overnight, gold surged more than 1% on Tuesday, building on gains from earlier in the session following the release of soft consumer confidence and manufacturing data in the U.S. Global trading of the precious metal remains extremely volatile, as gold posted its third move of at least 1% in the last four sessions. Gold futures continued their upward move on Tuesday after The Conference Board said its Consumer Confidence Index for February fell sharply to 92.2 from a revised 97.8 a month earlier. With the considerable declines, consumer confidence in the U.S. fell to its lowest level since last July. Analysts only expected to see minor declines of 0.6 on the month to 97.2. Within the report, though, there were only signs of slight erosion in consumer confidence. Respondents who asserted that jobs are plentiful decreased mildly from 23.0 to 20.1%. Meanwhile, respondents who claimed that jobs are hard to get, increased moderately from 23.6% to 24.2%. The category is among one of the most closely-watched details of the survey. Elsewhere, the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond said its Manufacturing Index fell to minus-4 in February, sliding to its lowest level since September. The subdued readings could compel analysts to scrutinize next week's U.S. February jobs report more closely. Following solid gains of 0.5% in average hourly earnings in January, a strong report this month may provide hawkish members of the Federal Open Market Committee with more ammunition in their arguments for an imminent interest rate hike. A host of FOMC members including Fed governors Stanley Fischer, Jerome Powell and Lael Brainard are scheduled to speak this week. The CME Group's (O:O:CME) Fed Watch tool has increased the probability of one rate hike by the U.S. central bank this year to 34.2%, up from 21.9% last month. In December, the Fed ended a seven-year zero interest rate policy by raising the target range of its benchmark Federal Funds Rate by 25 basis points to 0.25-0.50%. Any rate hikes this year are viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. 
