Title: Energy stocks surge on OPEC news
Date: 20161130
Content:
Investing.com - Energy stocks surged by 5% today on news of OPEC's production cut pact. Solid economic data on jobs and housing also moved the markets. But overall stock prices were mixed on Wednesday in the U.S. TheEnergy Select Sector SPDR (NYSE:XLE) also jumped 5.2%. OPEC oil ministers meeting in Vienna agreed to cut production by approximately 1.2 million barrels per day, The Dow Jones industrial average closed at 19123.58, an increase of 0.1%, or 1.98,, as  Chevron  Corporation (NYSE:CVX) and  Goldman Sachs Group  Inc (NYSE:GS)contributed to big gains. The S&P 500 was down 0.27% to close at 2198.81, on the days news, after earlier reaching a new record high. The Nasdaq composite closed at 1.05% lower, at 5323.68, which analysts viewed as a day of underperformance for that market index. The Chicago PMI index reading for November came in at 57.6, above an October reading of 50.6. Home sales rose 0.1% month over month in October and 1.8% year over year, in line with anticipated growth. Job growth was solid per a report by a leading payroll services provider. The Federal Reserve's expected interest rate rise is also generating movement in the markets. "Janet Yellen will add restrictive measures in December and has an unambiguous intention to do so on two separated occasions in 2017. However, her pace toward normalization still trails that for expectations for inflation which will allow the yield curve to steepen further to encourage financial institutions to lend to both businesses and individuals," Jeremy Klein, chief market strategist at FBN Securities, said in a note for investors, a copy of which was obtained by Investing.com. Goldman Sachs was also positive about U.S. economic prospects for the long-term under the new presidential administration. "We asked analysts to comment on how the results of the U.S. election will affect companies in their respective sectors," the team led by Avisha Thakkar, equities analyst, at Goldman Sachs, writes in the new note. "While their responses suggest that there is still uncertainty about the sector-level impact, the majority of sectors are anticipating favorable effects," they say, adding that expectations of lower tax rates and economic stimulus are among key reasons for the favorable outlook." 
