Title: Gold falls slightly, retreating near 5-week lows ahead of Fed minutes
Date: 20160406
Content:
Investing.com -- Gold fell slightly, erasing some of its gains from the previous session's surge, as investors traded cautiously ahead of the release of the Federal Reserve's minutes from its March meeting later on Wednesday. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for June delivery traded between $1,218.60 and $1,233.80 an ounce before settling at $1,223.70, down 6.00 or 0.49% on the day. At session-lows, gold fell near 5-week lows hit late last week. Since reaching 13-month highs in mid-March when it eclipsed $1,280 an ounce, the precious metal has fallen back more than 3% amid extremely dovish indications from Fed chair Janet Yellen that the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) will exercise caution with the timing of its next rate hike. Gold is coming off its strongest quarter in three decades, when it surged nearly 15% as investors piled into the safe-haven asset due primarily to mounting concerns of a China-driven global economic slowdown. Gold likely gained support at $1,063.20, the low from January 4 and was met with resistance at $1,280.70, the high from Mar. 11. Investors could receive a clearer picture of the FOMC's thought process when the U.S. central bank met last month, after the minutes from its two-day March meeting are released on Wednesday afternoon at 2 p.m. EST. In a 9-1 vote, the FOMC agreed last month to hold its benchmark Federal Funds Rate at a targeted range between 0.25 and 0.50%. The FOMC has left short-term rates steady at each of its first two meetings this year, following its historic meeting in December when it abandoned a seven-year zero interest rate policy by implementing a 25 basis point hike. More critically, the FOMC lowered its long-term interest rate and inflation forecasts reducing the number of projected rate hikes this year from four to two. Since then, Yellen has appeared even more dovish, prompting futures market to lower the probability of multiple rate hike approvals by the Fed before the end of 2016. Citing increased risks with global financial and economic conditions, as well as longstanding concerns with the price of oil, Yellen said at a closely-watched speech last week that the FOMC should only consider gradual rate hikes in the near term. "Implicitly, this expectation of fading headwinds and a rising neutral rate is a key reason for the FOMC's assessment that gradual increases in the federal funds rate over time will likely be appropriate," Yellen said in an address before the Economic Club of New York. Yellen's position has fueled speculation of potential dissension among FOMC members, as St. Louis Fed president James Bullard, Philadelphia Fed president Patrick Harker, Atlanta Fed president Dennis Lockhart and Kansas City Fed president Esther George have all delivered hawkish comments on the need for further tightening by the Fed in recent weeks. Any rate hikes by the Fed this year are viewed as bearish for gold which struggles to compete with high yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, fell more than 0.25% to an intraday low of 94.25, before inching back up to 94.39 in U.S. afternoon trading. The index remains near five-month lows. Dollar-denominated commodities such as gold become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates. Silver for May delivery fell slightly by 0.081 or 0.54% to $15.035 an ounce. Copper for May delivery ticked up 0.005 or 0.23% to 2.143 a pound. 
