Title: NYMEX crude gains in Asia as China GDP meets expectations at 6.7%
Date: 20160415
Content:
Investing.com - Crude oil prices gained in Asia on Friday as China GDP data met expectations, though clocked the weakest annual pace since 2009. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for May delivery rose 0.19% to $41.58 a barrel. Brent crude was up 0.09% to $43.89 a barrel. China said first quarter GDP rose 6.7% year-on-year, matching expectations, while industrial production for March rose 6.9%, better thatn the 5.9% gain seen year-on-year and retail sales increaqsed 10.5%, beating the 10.4% expected year-on-year. Earlier, the Reserve Bank of Australia released its Financial Stability Review, which said risks in the household sector have eased in the past six months owing to regulatory measures in the housing market putting recent borrowers on a sounder footing. Overnight, crude futures fell slightly from 2016-yearly highs on Thursday, amid heightened skepticism from investors that a coordinated production freeze at this weekend's meeting in Qatar will have a tangible effect at reducing the excessive supply glut on global markets. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude for June delivery wavered between $43.30 and $44.62 a barrel, before closing at $43.74, down 0.43 or 0.97% on the trading day. Even if Saudi Arabia, Russia and two other producers agree on a deal to cap output level at Sunday's highly-anticipated summit in Doha, energy traders and analysts remain unsure on whether such a pact could help propel oil back above $50 a barrel. Earlier on Thursday, the Paris-based International Energy Agency (IEA), expressed similar doubts that a deal could help boost persistently low oil prices. Any agreement between OPEC and Non-OPEC to freeze production near current levels will have "limited impact" on global supply, as markets are unlikely to "rebalance before 2017," the IEA said on Thursday. At the same time, the IEA predicted in its April Oil Market Report that a wide imbalance between global supply and demand will narrow to 200,000 barrels per day from its current level near 1.5 million bpd, amid expectations for the largest annual decline in Non-OPEC production in more than two decades. On Wednesday, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said weekly crude production fell by 31,000 bpd to 8.977 million bpd last week, representing the fifth straight week of declines. With the sharp reductions, U.S. output dipped below 9.0 million bpd for the first time since October, 2014. By comparison, weekly crude production in the U.S. hovered around 9.6 million bpd last June, its highest level in more than 40 years. The IEA anticipates notable decelerations in U.S. output, as shale producers continue to be forced offline due to the prohibitive high costs of drilling. In spite of the recent upswing, crude futures are still down more than 40% from their level in November, 2014, when OPEC roiled global energy markets with a strategic decision to maintain its production ceiling above 30 million barrels per day. 
