Title: Crude pares gains after eclipsing $50 barrier for first time in 7 months
Date: 20160526
Content:
Investing.com -- Crude futures cleared the $50 hurdle for the first time since October on Thursday, before falling back to close slightly lower for the session, as investors responded to reports of further supply disruptions in Nigeria and growing Asian demand for Saudi Arabian oil. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for June delivery traded in a broad range between $49.23 and $50.21 a barrel before settling at $49.45, down 0.10 or 0.20% on the session. U.S. crude futures are now up by approximately 80% from their level in mid-February when they plunged to 13-year lows near $26. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), brent crude for July delivery wavered between $49.27 and $50.51 a barrel, before closing at $49.55, down 0.19 or 0.38% on the day. Both the international and U.S. benchmarks of crude are up sharply since negotiations at a highly-anticipated summit between OPEC and Non-OPEC producers collapsed last month. Brent traded at a 0.10 premium over WTI at the close of trading on Thursday, down slightly from 0.18 at Wednesday's settlement. Earlier this week, the front month contract for brent crude fell below WTI for the first time in months. In overnight, Asian trading, crude eclipsed a key psychological barrier of $50 a barrel after a group of militant avengers in the Niger delta region of Southern Nigeria claimed responsibility for an attack that shut down  Chevron  's (NYSE:CVX) oil facility in the area. It was the latest assault against a major oil company by the Niger Delta Avengers, a local group that has targeted global energy companies in an attempt to defend the environment. The recent disruptions to Chevron and  Exxon Mobil  (NYSE:XOM) pipelines in Nigeria have reduced nationwide production to its lowest levels in 20 years. Crude prices then retreated in U.S. morning trading as reports from Reuters surfaced that Saudi Arabia has offered  larger quantities of crude to customers in Asia after a series of oilfield maintenance initiatives were completed earlier this week. As a result, Saudi Aramco plans to increase output by as much as 1 million barrels per day in the next two weeks, sources told Reuters. When OPEC convenes for a semi-annual meeting next week in Vienna, the 13-member nation is not expected to come to terms on any agreement that could lead to a comprehensive production freeze. Despite the recent upswing in oil prices, crude is still down by approximately 60% from its level two years ago when it peaked above $100 a barrel. In November, 2014, OPEC roiled global energy markets by altering its strategy to favor market share over price gains. Ever since, prices have fallen precipitously as supply continues to severely outpace demand. Investors continued to digest a bullish supply report from the previous session when the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said commercial crude inventories fell by 4.2 million barrels for the week ending on May 20 in comparison with the previous week. At 537.1 million barrels, U.S. crude oil inventories are still at historically high levels for this time of year. Production, meanwhile, fell by 24,000 barrels per day to 8.791 million bpd, remaining near lows from September, 2014. Crude output across the U.S. has declined in 18 straight weeks. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the strength of the greenback versus a basket of six other major currencies, fell more than 0.20% to an intraday low of 94.93. The index is down by more than 4% since early-December. Dollar-denominated commodities such as crude become more expensive for foreign purchasers when the dollar appreciates.
