Title: Gold posts gains in Asia on Brexit concerns, silver sprint continues
Date: 20160705
Content:
Investing.com - Gold gained on Brexit concerns and silver continued its impressive sprint in Asia on Wednesday in thin trade with several markets shut to mark Eid al-Fitr and no major regional data ahead. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for August delivery rose 0.50% to $1,365.50 a troy ounce. Silver futures for August delivery jumped 1.32% to $20.172 a troy ounce, while copper futures for September delivery fell 0.05% to $2.138 a pound. Overnight, gold surged more than 1% on Tuesday in spite of a broadly stronger dollar, as investors continued to pile into the safe-haven asset amid widespread concerns of a global economic slowdown. Gold has hovered neared 27-month highs since soaring nearly $100 an ounce in a single session in late-June after voters in the U.K. approved a referendum paving the way for a potential departure from the European Union. Since opening the year around $1,075, Gold has soared nearly 25% over the last six months, amid mounting concerns of a worldwide recession and a delayed interest rate hike from the Federal Reserve. Investors continued to closely monitor banking stocks in Italy one day after reports surfaced that the European Central Bank asked bank Monte dei Paschi di Siena to accelerate its sale of troublesome Non-Performing Loans (NPL). On Monday, Monte Paschi, the third-largest bank in Italy, said it received a letter from the ECB asking the lender to come up with a three-year business plan to cut the amount of its Non-Performing Loans nearly in half to 14.6 billion euro's by 2018. The letter came on the heels of conflicting reports that Italy prime minister Matteo Renzi could flout EU banking rules by injecting up to €150 billion of liquidity into banks nationwide in order to rescue the troubled financial sector. Banking stocks in Italy have tumbled more than 30% since the Brexit referendum passed, extending sharp losses year to date. Complicating matters, new EU rules passed in January prevent the use of public funds to support troubled banks until creditors from the private sector have been "bailed-in," or have assumed a burden of the bad debt that is being written off. As a result, a number of investors holding the junior bonds could take a hit if the EU prohibits the Italian government from providing emergency support to the banks. More broadly, the reports exacerbate concerns that Italy may consider a referendum to leave the EU, helping contagion fears of the potential collapse of the European bloc. Gold is a safe-haven for investors in periods of significant economic uncertainty. Elsewhere, officials from China's National Statistics Bureau (NSB) announced on Tuesday that it is changing its method for calculating the nation's GDP, marking the second time the bureau has made an adjustment to the calculation in less than a year. The adjustment will reportedly add $131 billion to the world's second-largest economy for fiscal year 2015. However, the correction could also lead to growing concerns among economists related to further slowdowns in the Chinese economy after GDP growth last year slumped below 7.0% for the first time in more than two decades. China is the world's largest producer of gold and the second-largest consumer of the precious metal behind India.  
