Title: NYMEX, Brent gain as API estimates show solid crude draw
Date: 20160607
Content:
Investing.com - Crude prices rose further in Asia on Wednesday after a solid drop in industry estimates of U.S. crude stocks. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for July delivery rose 0.22% to $50.47 a barrel. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent gained 0.10% to $51.49 a barrel. The American Petroleum Institute said crude oil stock dropped 3.56 million barrels, largely as expected while distillates stock rose 270,000 barrels and gasoline stock 760,000 barrels. Later Wednesday, the U.S. Department of Energy will release more closely-watched estimates. Overnight, crude extended its recent hot streak as U.S. futures closed above $50 a barrel for the first time in nearly a year, ahead of the American Petroleum Institute's latest inventory report on Tuesday evening. Oil prices remained near multi-month highs on Tuesday, as a longstanding conflict in Nigeria continued to slow production helping assuage concerns related to global oversupply. It came amid growing pessimism from Shell (LON:LON:RDSa) that a damaged export pipeline in Southern Nigeria can be salvaged. Last week, a facility at Shell's Nigerian oil subsidiary was severely damaged from a series of attacks perpetrated by a rogue military group known as the Niger Delta Avengers, which have purportedly carried out the attacks to further their environmental agenda against a host of energy companies in the area. "We cannot operate or repair if our people are threatened," Shell CFO Simon Henry told Bloomberg at the company's annual capital markets day on Tuesday. On Monday evening, Nigeria oil minister Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu announced that president Muhammadu Buhari's national security team had initiated discussions with the militant group in an effort to slow the rate of attacks. The Avengers, which have reportedly claimed responsibility for more than a dozen attacks in the Nigerian swamps over the last week, pledged on Monday to eliminate all oil production nationwide. The acts of sabotage have forced approximately 600,000 barrels per day offline, pushing Nigerian output to its lowest levels in more than two decades. Separately, Kachikwu said that daily production in the country has fallen to a range in between 1.5 and 1.6 million barrels per day, down from 2.2 million bpd at the start of the year. 
