Title: Gold gains in Asia as Brexit impact sustains last week&#39;s rally
Date: 20160626
Content:
Investing.com - Gold in Asia on Monday continued last week's gains on the surprise Brexit vote for the U.K. to leave the European Union with investors awaiting any cues the next move by Britain and possible policy responses by Japan which has seen the yen soar in response to safe-haven demand. Gold for August delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange rose 0.93% to $1,224.65 a troy ounce. Silver futures gained 0.54% to $17.910 a troy ounce, while copper future eased 0.38% to $2.108 a pound. In the week ahead, market volatility is expected to remain high after global stocks saw more than $2 trillion wiped off their value on Friday and the pound fell by as much as 10% amid the fallout from the Brexit vote. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen is due to speak at an ECB central bank conference in Portugal on Wednesday, with investors looking for indications on how Brexit will alter the outlook for the U.S. economy and the path of interest rates. The U.S. is to release revised estimates on first quarter growth on Tuesday. Last week, gold prices rallied to a two-year high on Friday after a shock U.K. vote to exit the European Union sent investors flooding into bullion and other safe haven assets, hitting peaks of $1,358.20 for the largest one day gain since September 2013 and the highest close since August 2014 after the U.K. voted by nearly 52% to 48% on Thursday to break away from the world's biggest trading bloc. British Prime Minister David Cameron, who had backed the failed Remain campaign, stepped down after the final referendum result was announced.The decision heightened fears over the outlook for the global economy and triggered historic falls in stocks and currencies. The precious metal is up almost 25% for the year to date, boosted by concerns over global growth and the adoption of negative interest rates by central banks. Gold has also been boosted as the Federal Reserve cut projections for the number of interest rate increases planned for this year. Lower interest rates tend to help gold, as the metal pays its holders nothing, but it struggles to compete with yield-bearing investments when interest rates rise.  
