Title: OPEC points to 'letting the market work' prior to press conference
Date: 20160602
Content:
Investing.com – As markets awaited the press conference from Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) meeting in Vienna tentatively scheduled for 14:00GMT, or 10:00AM ET, on Thursday, participants from the group’s oil producers seemed unlikely to reach a deal on an output cap and were leaning towards allowing the market to rebalance itself. Saudi Arabia’s new oil minister Khalid al-Falih, the world’s largest exporter, suggested that the market was rebalancing and that oil prices will respond to that. Al-Falih indicated that the market was not currently over-supplied, although he admitted that there were inventories that needed to be absorbed. “Whatever action we take will be taking into consideration that the market is doing quite well by itself, so we will be very gentle in our approach,” al-Falih declared. Some energy ministers hinted at the reintroduction of a production ceiling, though an agreement seemed unlikely. The United Arab Emirates energy minister Suhail Al Mazrouei said that “We are willing to put out a ceiling providing everyone agrees.” But Angola’s energy minister Jose Botelho de Vasconcelos referred to the idea only as a “possibility”. However, the Iranian minister Bijan Zanganeh directly ruled the idea out, stating that it would provide “no benefit” for Iran. “One of our main ideas is to have country quotas, but I don’t think we can reach an agreement on this subject at this meeting,” Zanganeh said. In the opening address to the meeting, Qatar’s energy minister Mohammed Bin Saleh Al-Sada laid out the framework for the meeting. “With regard to global economic growth, the story remains somewhat patchy,” Al-Sada said. “While the estimated 2016 growth of 3.1% is higher than that of 2015, it has been revised down slightly since our December meeting,” he added. Al-Sada said that world oil demand was healthy with growth of over 1.2 million barrels per day expected. On the supply side, he suggested that non-OPEC members were cutting their production as a result of the drop in prices last year. “We now anticipate a contraction of 740,000 barrels per day this year. This is more than two million barrels per day lower than the growth of 2015,” he noted. Al-Sada also indicated that inventories were high in what may have been considered a hint to set production targets, but added that the downward trend should be noted.“A more stable and balanced market will be beneficial to all,” Al-Sada said. While waiting for the press conference later in the day, U.S. crude futures traded flat at $49.01 by 10:10AM GMT, or 6:10AM ET, while Brent oil inched up 0.08% to $49.76.
