Title: Gold prices edge up in Asia on dovish Fed views
Date: 20160308
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices ticked higher in Asia on Wednesday on a more dovish outlook for U.S. interest rates. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for April delivery rose 0.11% to $1,264.30 a troy ounce. Silver futures for March delivery edged up 0.04% to $15.390 a troy ounce, while copper futures were flat at $2.214 a pound. Overnight, Gold futures ticked up on Tuesday remaining near 13-month highs, as investors took part in a flight to safety from equities in China following the latest batch of subdued data from the world's second-largest economy. Gold ended February with its best month in more than a decade and is on pace for its strongest opening quarter in nearly 30 years. After ending last year just above $1,050 an ounce, the precious metal has surged by nearly 20% over the last nine weeks. In China, the Customs Administration said Tuesday that exports fell by 25.4% on an annual basis in February, extending losses from a month earlier when they dipped by 11.2% on the month. While exports were expected to fall considerably due to the Chinese New Year, the figure came in sharply below analysts' expectations for a 15% decline. With the declines, exports decreased at their highest monthly rate since the depths of the Financial Crisis. At the same time, China's imports tumbled by 13.8% last month following a sharp decline of 18.8% in January. As a result, China's trade deficit fell to $32.59 million in February, down considerably from $63.29 million a month earlier. The Shanghai Composite Index closed slightly positive on Tuesday, after spending the majority of the session in the red. The soft export data comes several days after premier Li Keqiang announced that China is lowering the nation's annual growth target slightly to 6.5-7.0% for 2016. Last year, GDP growth in China fell below 7% for the first time in more than a decade, a purported byproduct of the nation's transition from a manufacturing-based to consumer-driven economy. China is the world's largest producer of gold and the world's second-largest consumer behind India. Investors continue to await a highly-anticipated meeting from the European Central Bank's Governing Council for further signals on potential divergence from the top central banks in the world. The ECB is widely expected to approve a host of easing measures aimed at bolstering growth throughout the euro zone. When the central bank last met in January, it held its benchmark interest rate at a record-low of 0.05. At Thursday's meeting, the ECB could lower its deposit and margin facility rates, while increasing the scope of its €60 billion a month bond buying program. The dovish policy moves could compel the Federal Reserve to delay the pace of its current tightening cycle when the U.S. central bank meets again next week. Any rate hikes by the Fed this year are viewed as bearish for gold, which struggles to compete with high-yield bearing assets in rising rate environments. 
