Title: NYMEX down on API build, Brent up as OPEC meeting ahead
Date: 20160601
Content:
Investing.com - NYMEX Crude oil prices fell in Asia on Thursday as U.S. industry estimates of stocks showed a surprise build, but Brent gained slightly as traders turned cautious ahead of the start of an OPEC meeting in Vienna. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for July delivery eased 0.14% to $48.94 a barrel. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent crude rose 0.16% to $49.80 a barrel. The American Petroleum Institute's weekly crude inventory report showed an unexpected build of 2.35 million barrels in crude oil, well off the 3.1 million barrels decline seen. Distillates stocks dropped 1.15 million barrels, more than the 400,000 barrels fall seen and gasoline stock declined 1.48 million barrels, slightly more than expected. More closely-watched data from the U.S. Department of Energy is due on Thursday, one day later than normal this week due to the Memorial Day holiday. Overnight, crude futures pared some of its sharp losses as OPEC members worked to revive a dormant pact aimed at freezing output, shortly after Russia announced that it will no longer participate in such a deal due to the rising cost of oil. At session-lows, both the U.S. and international benchmarks of crude fell to their lowest levels in a week. Since surging above $50 a barrel for the first time in six months last week, WTI crude has closed lower in five of the last six sessions. Crude prices initially fell sharply on Wednesday after Russian energy officials abandoned plans to take part in a comprehensive OPEC-Non-OPEC production freeze that has been in the works since the middle of February. At the time, global oil prices slumped near multi-year lows weighing on the economies of major oil producing states such as: Russia, Saudi Arabia, Venezuela, Nigeria and a host of others. Separately, Russia announced that it will not send representatives to Thursday's semi-annual OPEC meeting in Vienna. "Today, since we are seeing that oil prices have bounced back, and bounced back quite high in comparison with the start of the year, this freeze issue has so far lost its relevance," Russia energy minister Alexander Novak told reporters in Moscow.Meanwhile, a senior OPEC official told Reuters that the Gulf Cooperation Council is hoping for "coordinated action," between member states at the meeting in order to develop a plan aimed at stabilizing global oil prices. The council consists of Saudi Arabia, Qatar and two other Persian Gulf allies in Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates. In recent weeks the group has been met with resistance by Iran, which has been hesitant to cap output as it seeks to ramp up production to pre-sanction levels from 2007. Talks at a closely-watched summit in Doha in mid-April collapsed after Saudi Arabia insisted that Iran participate in any agreement involving a freeze of production. "Iran supports OPEC’s efforts to bring stability to the market with fair and logical prices, but it will not commit to any output freeze," Mehdi Asalia, Iran's representative to OPEC, told state-run news agency Shana.  
