Title: NYMEX, Brent gain in Asia with China prices data noted
Date: 20160608
Content:
Investing.com - Crude prices held gains in Asia on Thursday as consumer prices fell more than expected in April, sparking demand hopes for the key market that this week released data that showed a drop in oil imports. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, WTI crude for July delivery gained 0.70% to $51.59 a barrel. On the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), Brent rose 0.46% to $52.75 a barrel. In China, CPI data for May showed a drop of 0.5% month-on-month, more than the 0.2% fall seen, and 2.0% gain year-on-year, less than the 2.3% increases expected, while producer prices eased 2.8%, less than the 3.3% year-on-year drop expected. Overnight, crude futures pared some gains after surging to fresh 11-month highs on Wednesday, as a bullish U.S. inventory report eased some concerns related to the massive supply glut that persists throughout energy markets worldwide. U.S. crude futures have skyrocketed more than 90% since hitting 13-year lows at $26.05 a barrel on February 11. On Wednesday morning, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said U.S. commercial crude oil inventories decreased by 3.2 million barrels for the week ending on June 3, while attacks in Nigeria on oil infrastructure that crimped output this month offered support. At 532.5 million barrels, U.S. crude oil inventories are still at historically high levels for this time of year. On the West Coast, crude stockpiles rose by 2.4 million barrels to 60.9 million, reaching its highest level since 2009. It was partially offset by a 1.4 million barrel draw at the Cushing Oil Hub in Oklahoma. Although stockpiles at the main delivery point for NYMEX oil fell to 65.6 million barrels last week, supply levels still remain near full storage capacity. Analysts expected a draw of 2.8 million barrels, following a decline of 1.36 million a week earlier. On Tuesday evening, the American Petroleum Institute reported a drop of 3.6 million barrels last week. Meanwhile, crude production nationwide increased by 10,000 barrels per day to 8.745 million bpd, halting a four-month streak of weekly declines. Over the last year, crude output in the U.S. has plummeted by nearly 1 million bpd. Last year at this time, daily production hovered around 9.6 million barrels, its highest level in more than 40 years. Further gains in oil prices were limited by slowing economic activity in China, as oil imports fell in May to their lowest level in four-months. Earlier on Wednesday, China's General Administration of Customs reported that monthly crude imports fell to 32.24 million, amid rising congestion at a main port. China is one of the world's top importers of oil from the Middle East. 
