Title: Gold prices flit between gains and losses in Asia with nonfarm data eyed
Date: 20160801
Content:
Investing.com - Gold prices flitted between small gains and losses in Asia on Tuesday as investors looked to take a breather ahead of nonfarm payroll data from the U.S. at the end of the week that may shed a clearer picture on Fed rate hike prospects this year. Gold futures for December delivery on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange was quoted up 0.01% to $1,359.75 a troy ounce. Also on the Comex, silver futures for September delivery also edged between gains and losses, trading down 0.04% at $20.487 a troy ouncem, while copper futures rose 0.05% to $2.196 a pound. Overnight, gold prices were slightly lower in North American trade on Monday, after data showed that U.S. construction spending fell for a third straight month in June as outlays dropped across the board. The disappointing report suggesting a downward revision to the second-quarter economic growth estimate published last week is on the horizon. In a separate report, U.S. factories expanded for a fifth straight month in July, another sign that U.S. manufacturers are recovering from damage caused by a strong dollar, according to the Institute of Supply Management. On Friday, prices jumped to $1,362.00, the most since July 11, after data showed the U.S. economy grew much slower than expected in the second quarter, sending the dollar to five-week lows and prompting market players to roll back expectations of a rate hike from the Federal Reserve. The advance read on second quarter GDP showed a 1.2% annualized growth rate, well below expectations for 2.6%, the Commerce Department said on Friday. First quarter GDP was revised lower to 0.8% from 1.1%. The disappointing data lessened the threat of an early interest rate rise from the Federal Reserve. Fed funds futures are currently pricing in just a 12% chance of a rate hike by September. December odds were at 33%, down from 43% ahead of the GDP report and compared to 53% at the start of last week.  
